Albert Scott Crossfield (October 2, 1921 – April 19, 2006) was an American United States Navy naval officer and test pilot. In 1953, he became the first pilot to fly at twice the speed of sound.

==Biography==
Born October 2, 1921, in Berkeley, California, Crossfield grew up in California and Washington (state) Washington. He served with the United States Navy U.S. Navy as a flight instructor and fighter pilot during World War II. During this time, he flew the F6F and F4U fighters, as well as SNJ trainers, and a variety of other aircraft. From 1946 to 1950, he worked in the University of Washingtons Kirsten Wind Tunnel while earning his Bachelor of Science degree in 1949 and Master of Science degree in Aerospace engineering Aeronautical Engineering in 1950.

=== Military career ===
In 1950, Crossfield joined the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) High-Speed Flight Station (later called the NASA Dryden Flight Research Center, and now named the Neil A. Armstrong Flight Research Center) at Edwards Air Force Base, California, as an aeronautical research pilot.
File:Scott Crossfield and D-558-2, November 20, 1953.jpg thumb left upright Crossfield in the cockpit a Douglas D-558-II Skyrocket during November 1953

Crossfield demonstrated his flight test skills on his very first student solo. His instructor was not available on the designated early morning, so Crossfield, on his own, took off and went through maneuvers he had practiced with his instructor, including spin entry and spin recovery. During the first spin, Crossfield experienced vibrations, banging, and noise in the aircraft that he had never encountered with his instructor. He recovered, climbed to a higher altitude, and repeated his spin entry and spin recovery, getting the same vibration, banging and noise. On his third spin entry, at yet an even higher altitude, he looked over his shoulder as he was spinning and observed the instructors door disengaged and flapping in the spin. He reached back, pulled the door closed, and discovered all the vibrations, banging and noise stopped. Satisfied, he recovered from the spin, landed (actually, did several landings), and fueled the airplane. He also realized his instructor had been holding the door during their practice spin entries and recoveries, and never mentioned this door quirk. In later years, Crossfield often cited his curiosity about this solo spin anomaly and his desire to analyze what was going on and why it happened, as the start of his test pilot career.

Over the next five years, he flew nearly all of the experimental aircraft under test at Edwards, including the Bell X-1 X-1, XF-92, X-4 Bantam X-4, Bell X-5 X-5, Douglas Skystreak Douglas D-558-I Skystreak and the Douglas Skyrocket Douglas D-558-II Skyrocket.  During one of his X-1 flights, the cockpit windows completely frosted and Crossfield was literally flying blind. Ever resourceful, he removed a loafer, took off his sock, and created a peep hole to reference his chase plane wingman all the way to landing.
On November 20, 1953, he became the first person to fly at twice the speed of sound as he piloted the Skyrocket to a speed of 1,291 mph (2,078 km/h, Mach (speed) Mach 2.005).
The Skyrocket D-558-II surpassed its intended design speed by 25 percent on that day. With 99 flights in the rocket-powered X-1 and D-558-II, Crossfield had — by a wide margin — more experience with rocketplanes than any other pilot in the world by the time he left Edwards to join North American Aviation in 1955.

In September 1954, Crossfield was forced to make a deadstick landing in the North American F-100 Super Sabre he was evaluating at the High-Speed Flight Station (now the Neil A. Armstrong Flight Research Center), a feat which North Americans own test pilots doubted could be done, as the F-100 had a high landing speed. Crossfield made a perfect approach and touchdown, but was unable to bring the unpowered aircraft to a halt in a safe distance, and was forced to use the wall of the NACA hangar as a makeshift brake after narrowly missing several parked experimental aircraft ("with great precision," as he later wryly joked). Crossfield was uninjured, and the F-100 was later repaired and returned to service.
Crossfield left NACA in 1955.
=== North American Aviation career ===
As chief engineering test pilot for North American, Crossfield played a major role in the design and development of the North American X-15 and its systems. Once it was ready to fly, it was his job to demonstrate its airworthiness at speeds ranging up to Mach 3 (2,290 mph). Because the X-15 and its systems were unproven, these tests were considered extremely hazardous. Crossfield flew 14 of the 199 total X-15 flight tests with most of these tests establishing and validating initial key parameters. Crossfield not only designed the X-15 from the beginning, but introduced many innovations, including putting engine controls of the rocket plane into the cockpit. Previously, all engine adjustments resulted from technicians making adjustments on the ground based upon results of flight profiles.

It was during this time that Crossfield was part of the U.S. Air Forces Man In Space Soonest project.

On June 8, 1959, he completed the airplanes first flight, an unpowered glide from 37,550 feet.  The flight was troubled as the flight controls had not been set up properly.  As Crossfield attempted to land the unfueled X-15, it went into what Crossfield described as "a classic PIO" or pilot induced oscillation.  He managed to set down the X-15 on the desert runway at the bottom of one of the severe oscillations saving himself and the airframe.
On September 17, 1959, he completed the first powered flight. Because of delays in the development of the X-15s mammoth 57,000 pounds force (254 kN) thrust XLR-99 engine, the early flights were completed with a pair of interim XLR-11 rocket engines.

Shortly after launch on his third flight, one of these engines exploded. Unable to jettison his propellants, Crossfield was forced to make an emergency landing during which the excessive load on the aircraft broke its back just behind the cockpit. He was uninjured and the airplane was repaired.

On June 8, 1960, he had another close call during ground tests with the XLR-99 engine. He was seated in the cockpit of the No. 3 X-15 when a malfunctioning valve caused a catastrophic explosion. Once again he was uninjured as Dr. Toby Freedman, NAA Medical Director, pried open the cockpit to save him and despite being subjected to a later calculated acceleration force of near 50 Gs (although Crossfield stated in the Discovery Channels series Frontiers of Flight that he began to have debilitating issues with his night vision after the accident) and the airplane was completely rebuilt. On November 15 of the same year, he completed the X-15s first powered flight with the XLR-99 engine. Two flights later, on December 6, he brought North Americans demonstration program to a successful conclusion as he completed his final flight in the X-15. Although it had been his hope to eventually pilot one of the craft into space, the USAF would not allow it, and gave strict orders which basically amounted to "stay in the sky, stay out of space."

All together, he completed 16 captive flights (mated to the B-52 Stratofortress B-52 launch aircraft), one glide and 13 powered flights in the X-15.  The surprise retirement of the X-15 (due to funding cutbacks) after its record-setting Mach 6.72 (4,520 mph) flight prompted pilot William J. Knight Pete Knight to remark that he would have pushed it to even faster speeds if he knew it was the last flight. In his remarks to a number of aviation groups, Crossfield cited the X-15 as one of few aircraft that caused grown men to cry upon its retirement.

He remained at North American as systems director of test and quality assurance in the companys Space and Information Systems Division where he oversaw quality, reliability engineering and systems test activities for such programs as the Project Apollo Apollo command and service modules and the Saturn II booster. In 1966, he became the divisions technical director for research engineering and test.

=== Civilian career ===
In 1961, Crossfield became division director of test and quality assurance for NAAs Paraglider project.
In 1967, Crossfield joined Eastern Air Lines where he served as a division vice president for research and development and, subsequently, as a staff vice president working with U.S. military and civilian agencies on air traffic control technologies.

In 1974–1975, he worked for Hawker Siddeley as a senior vice president supporting HS146 activities in the United States. In 1977, he joined the United States House of Representatives United States House Committee on Science, Space and Technology Committee on Science and Technology where he served, until his retirement in 1993, as a technical adviser on all aspects of civil aviation research and development and became one of the nations leading advocates for a reinvigorated research airplane program. In 1986, this House Committee tasked Crossfield to be a member of the task group assigned to investigate the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster.

In a 2000 public lecture, Crossfield described how the X-15 aeronautical calculations and design required computing power that filled four 10x12 rooms. He went on to say that these very same calculations could be performed today on a notebook computer. He also hinted that Burt Rutan and his Scaled Composite company were performing pioneering work for a private aircraft to take-off from an airport, fly into outer space, and return to that airport. In 2004, White Knight carried Space Ship One to its successful launch and winning of the Ansari X-Prize, the first attempt by a plane since the X-15 cancellation.

=== Later life ===
File:X 15 Test Pilot Scott Crossfield at the launch of Space Ship One. by D Ramey Logan.jpg thumb Crossfield at the launch of Space Ship One in October 2004
Crossfield was played by Scott Wilson (actor) Scott Wilson in the 1983 in film 1983 film The Right Stuff (film) The Right Stuff.

Crossfield co-authored Always Another Dawn, a story of a rocket test pilot, with Clay Blair Jr, and authored "Onward and Upward" Research Airplanes, Act II.

In 1986 he created and funded the A. Scott Crossfield Aerospace Education Teacher of the Year Award presented annually under the stewardship of the Civil Air Patrol during the National Congress on Aerospace Education now called the National Conference on Aerospace Education (NCASE). After his death in 2006 and the shift of NCASE from an annual to biannual conference, Crossfieldss daughter, Sally Crossfield Farley, moved the award to the National Aviation Hall of Fame and it is now presented during the Enshrinement Weekend each July in Dayton, Ohio.

In the 1991 Discovery Channel series Frontiers of Flight, Crossfield claimed he "...probably had more centrifuge time, pressure suit time and pressure chamber time and all of that than any man alive."
From 2001 to 2003, Crossfield trained pilots Terry Queijo, Kevin Kochersberger, Chris Johnson and Ken Hyde for The Wright Experience, which prepared to fly a reproduction Wright Flyer on the 100th anniversary of the Wright Brothers first flight on December 17, 1903. The training was successful, but the re-creation of the flight on December 17, 2003 was ultimately not successful due to low engine power and the flyers rain-soaked fabric covering which added considerably to its takeoff weight. The Wright replica did fly successfully at Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina after the Centennial jubilee but without media coverage.

When asked to name his favorite airplane, Crossfield replied, "the one I was flying at the time," because he thoroughly enjoyed them all and their unique personalities.

== Death ==
{{Infobox aircraft occurrence
 occurrence_type = Accident
 name = 2006 Cessna 210A crash
 image =  caption = 
 date = Wednesday, April 19, 2006
<br/>
11:10 AM Eastern Time Zone EST
 type=Air traffic control ATC error
<br/>
Weather Foul weather
<br/>
Pilot error
 site = Ludville, Georgia Ludville, Georgia (U.S. state) Georgia, United States
 aircraft_type = Cessna 210A
 aircraft_name = Centurion
 tail_number = {{hlist  N6579X C/n  msn:21057579}}
 origin = Prattville-Grouby Field
<br>
 Prattville, Alabama Prattville, Alabama, United States
 last_stopover = Maxwell Air Force Base
 <br>
  Montgomery, Alabama Montgomery, Alabama
 destination = Manassas Regional Airport
  <br/>
  Manassas, Virginia Manassas, Virginia
 passengers = 0
 crew = 1
 fatalities = 1 (all)
}}

On April 19, 2006, a Cessna 210 Cessna 210A piloted by Crossfield was reported missing while flying from Prattville, Alabama toward Manassas, Virginia.
  On April 20, authorities confirmed his body was found in the wreckage of his plane in a remote area of Ludville, Georgia Ludville, Georgia (U.S. state) Georgia. There were severe thunderstorms in the area when air traffic monitors lost radio and radar contact with Crossfields plane.

The Gordon County, Georgia Gordon County Sheriffs department reported that debris from Crossfields aircraft was found in three different locations within a quarter mile,
  suggesting that the plane broke up while it was still in the air.

Crossfield was returning from Maxwell Air Force Base, Montgomery, Alabama, where he had given a speech to a class of young Air Force officers attending the Air and Space Basic Course.  His funeral ceremony was held at the Arlington National Cemetery on August 15, 2006.

On September 27, 2007, the National Transportation Safety Board issued a report stating the probable cause of his crash to be as follows: "The pilots failure to obtain updated en route weather information, which resulted in his continued instrument flight into a widespread area of severe convective activity, and the air traffic controllers failure to provide adverse weather avoidance assistance, as required by Federal Aviation Administration directives, both of which led to the airplanes encounter with a severe thunderstorm and subsequent loss of control."
  <!-- Note that we can use this text as NTSB work is in the public domain -->
  ==Honors==
Crossfield received the Lawrence Sperry Award (1954), Octave Chanute Award (1954), Iven C. Kincheloe Award (1960), American Rocket Society (ARS) Astronautics Award (1960), Harmon Trophy Harmon International Trophy (1961 at the White House by President John F. Kennedy), Collier Trophy (1961 at the White House by President Kennedy in 1962), John J. Montgomery Award (1962), NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal (1993), and was named Honorary Fellow by the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) (1999). Crossfield is the only American to be honored in the White House for his contributions in advancing aeronautical science - or any other discipline - more than once, let alone two consecutive years. He has been inducted into the International Aerospace Hall of Fame (1965)
  , National Aviation Hall of Fame (1983), the International Space Hall of Fame (1988), the Virginia Aviation Hall of Fame (1998), Aerospace Walk of Honor (1990), The Glen A. Gilbert Memorial Award (1990) and the National Air and Space Museum Trophy (2000).  Posthumously, he has been awarded the Hoyt S. Vandenberg Award, the Paul Tissandier Diploma, the Victor Prather Victor A. Prather Award, and the Donald D. Engen Award.{{Citation needed date=January 2016}}

An elementary school was named in his honor near his last residence, in Herndon, Virginia (a community just northeast of Dulles International Airport). A ribbon named after him is one of the Aerospace Education Awards in the Civil Air Patrol Senior Members program. The terminal at the Chehalis-Centralia Airport (CLS) in Washington state bears his name.{{Citation needed date=January 2016}}

He was also most proud of his A. Scott Crossfield Aerospace Education Teacher of the Year Award which is awarded annually at what is known as the "Oscar Night" in aviation, the Annual Enshrinement Ceremony Weekend at the National Aviation Hall of Fame held each year at the end of July in Dayton, Ohio.{{Citation needed date=January 2016}}

Crossfield received an honorary doctor of science degree from the Florida Institute of Technology in 1982.{{Citation needed date=January 2016}}

==Legacy==
While he was celebrated as a daring test pilot, he claimed that his actual profession was an engineer. "I am an aeronautical engineer, an aerodynamicist and a designer. My flying was only primarily because I felt that it was essential to designing and building better airplanes for pilots to fly."
  ==Notes==
{{Reflist}}
 </br>
</br>