Alexander Adolphus Dumfries Henshaw, {{postnominals country=GBR size=100% MBE}} (7 November 1912 – 24 February 2007) was a British air racer in the 1930s and a test pilot for Vickers Armstrong during the Second World War.

==Early life==
Henshaw was born in Peterborough, the eldest son of a wealthy Lincolnshire family. He was educated at King Edward VI School, Stratford-upon-Avon King Edward VI Grammar School, Stratford-on-Avon ("Shakespeares School" where he sat at the Bards desk),
and Lincoln Christs Hospital School Lincoln School (formerly Lincoln Grammar School). He was awarded the Royal Humane Society Medal for saving the life of a boy from the River Witham.

Henshaw took to motorcycles, and then learned to fly at the Skegness and East Lincolnshire Aero Club in 1932, funded by his father, who bought him a de Havilland DH.60 Moth de Havilland Gipsy Moth.
Henshaw received his private pilots licence (no. 4572) on 6 June 1932. He made a name for himself in the 1930s in air racing, competing against legendary pilots like Geoffrey de Havilland. Aged only 20, he competed in the Blue Riband of air racing, the Kings Cup, in 1933, in a Comper Swift winning the Royal Aero Club Siddeley Trophy. He also flew a de Havilland Leopard Moth Leopard Moth and an Arrow Active which caught fire while he was performing aerobatics: Henshaw bailed out safely.

On 6 September 1935 Henshaws aircraft came down in the Irish Sea while competing in the Kings Cup air race, with Henshaw subsequently being rescued by the Isle of Man Steam Packet Company steamer, SS Ramsey Town Ramsey Town. Following the rescue Henshaw presented SS Ramsey Town Ramsey Towns commanding officer, Captain Archibald Holkham, with a barometer bearing an inscription which acknowledged that his skill and seamanship had probably saved the airmans life.
He later moved on to a Percival Mew Gull. He won the inaugural London-to-Isle of Man Air racing air race in 1937, and won the Kings Cup in 1938, flying at an average speed of 236.25 mph.

Henshaw then turned his attention to long distance flying. After reconnaissance of the eastern and western routes in 1938, he set off from Gravesend, Kent Gravesend at 0335 GMT on Sunday 5 February 1939 to fly his Percival Mew Gull Mew Gull to Cape Town and back. He refuelled on the way out in Oran in Algeria, crossed the Sahara to land in the Belgian Congo and then Angola, landing at Wingfield Aerodrome
Cape Town after flying 6,377 miles in 40 hours. He spent 28 hours in Cape Town, and retraced his route back to the UK, landing on 9 February after a flight of 39 hours, 36 minutes. He completed the whole 12,754-mile round trip in 4 days, 10 hours and 16 minutes, breaking the record for each leg and setting a solo record for the round trip. By the end, he was so tired that he had to be lifted out of the cockpit.

His account of this epic feat is given in his book Flight of the Mew Gull (1980) in which Henshaw describes hazardous landings at remote bush airstrips, battling through a tropical storm, and overcoming extreme exhaustion on the return leg. The aircraft he used, G-AEXF, was restored to its Cape flight configuration in the 1980s it remained in flying condition at Breighton in Yorkshire until Feb 2013 when it was purchased by The Shuttleworth Collection.
The Royal Aero Club awarded Henshaw the Britannia Trophy for his record flight.
The Cape record stood for more than 70 years. On 11 May 2009, Stobart Group Charles Stobart, flying a homebuilt Osprey GP-4, set a new record ratified by the FAI for the reverse route, Cape Town – London – Cape Town. Subsequently, on 3 September 2010, Steve Noujaim, flying a homebuilt Vans RV-7 supported by Prepare2go, landed at Southend Airport in the UK after completing a round-trip to Cape Town in 3 days, 11 hours and 16 minutes. The new record bettered Henshaws time by just over four hours.

File:Winston Churchill during the Second World War H14264.jpg thumb left  Prime Minister Winston Churchill talking to Alex Henshaw, after a 1941 demonstration flight on a Spitfire. Source: Imperial War Museum online collection IWM Collection No.H 14264

==Second World War==
Henshaw considered enlisting in the Royal Air Force at the start of the Second World War, but he instead became a test pilot for Vickers Armstrong. He subsequently took the rank of sergeant pilot to fly a fully armed Spitfire to defend the factory, if needed, although he was never called upon to fly in combat. Henshaw started with Vickers Wellington Wellingtons and Supermarine Walrus Walruses at Weybridge. He did not enjoy the work, and was on the point of leaving when Jeffrey Quill invited him to test Supermarine Spitfire Spitfires in Southampton.
In June 1940, Henshaw moved to the Castle Bromwich factory in Birmingham, which had been taken over by Vickers after poor production results by the Nuffield Organisation Nuffield group. He was soon appointed to the post of Chief Test Pilot, leading a team of 25 others. The factory built over half of the total output of Spitfires ever made, and 350 Avro Lancaster Lancaster heavy bombers; Henshaw tested both types of aircraft. Production/acceptance test flying was essential, ensuring that faults were detected before aircraft were delivered to the front line, but it was potentially dangerous: two of his team were killed testing new aircraft. Henshaw survived many forced landings and a catastrophic crash in Wednesfield near Wolverhampton on 18 July 1942 which destroyed his aircraft.
It is estimated that Henshaw flew 10% of all Spitfires and Supermarine Seafire Seafires, testing up to 20 aircraft a day in often foggy conditions. He would also demonstrate the Spitfire to visiting dignitaries, such as Winston Churchill, and once flying the length of Broad Street, Birmingham Broad Street in Birmingham at low level. He is the only pilot known to have performed a barrel roll in a Lancaster bomber, a feat that was considered by some to be reckless or impossible due to the aircrafts size and relatively modest performance. He flew this manoeuvre on several occasions with other members of his flight test team on board, including Peter Ayerst and Czech pilot Vaclav Venda Jicha. (Venda was a pre-war aerobatic pilot, fighter ace, Battle of Britain pilot and previous member of No. 124 ("Baroda") Squadron RAF.)

Henshaw was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire in recognition of his wartime service.

==Postwar==
After the war Henshaw became a director of Miles Aircraft in South Africa, a job which entailed visiting potential customers in the region and making demonstration flights. But the company folded and he returned to England in 1948. Although still only in his mid-30s, he never again flew as pilot in command of an aircraft.{{#tag:ref In March 2006, Henshaw, then aged 93, flew once again in a two-seat Spitfire T Mk IX at an RAF celebration at Duxford.
group=N}} Instead he took charge of his familys farming and holiday business interests in Lincolnshire. He was awarded the Queens Commendation for Brave Conduct for his rescue work in the North Sea flood of 1953 1953 floods.
Following his retirement, Henshaw wrote a book recounting his wartime experiences at the Castle Bromwich Aeroplane Factory (CBAF), Sigh for a Merlin (1979), the title referring to the Rolls-Royce Merlin aero engine engine of the same Rolls-Royce Merlin name which powered most Spitfires. This book was followed in 1980 by Flight of the Mew Gull, an account of the authors pre-war air racing and record-setting adventures.

The Air League awarded Henshaw the Jeffrey Quill Medal in 1997. In 2003, he became a Companion of the Air League in 2002 and was elected an Honorary Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society. In 2005, Henshaw donated his papers and mementoes to the RAF Museum, funding a curator to catalogue his collection. In his later years he was invited to make several flights in a two-seater Spitfire, occasionally handling the controls. The last of these came on 5 March 2006 when, at the age of 93, he took part in a flypast at Southampton Airport to mark the 70th anniversary of the first flight of the prototype.
Henshaw wrote a third book, Wings across the Great Divide which was published in 2004. This final part of his trilogy details his experiences flying in Africa in the immediate aftermath of the Second World War.

In 1940, Henshaw married Barbara, the widow of Guy, :fr:Châteaubrun Count of Chateaubrun. Barbara Henshaw died in 1996. Alex Henshaw died at home in Newmarket, Suffolk Newmarket on 24 February 2007. He was survived by their only child, Alexander Henshaw Jr.

An hour-long film biography of Henshaw entitled The Extraordinary Mr Spitfire was broadcast for the first time on History (U.S. TV channel) The History Channel UK in September 2007.

==See also==
* Jeffrey Quill
