Herbert John Louis Hinkler {{postnominals country=AUS size=100% sep=, AFC DSMuk}} (8 December 1892 – 7 January 1933), better known as Bert Hinkler, was a pioneer Australian aviator (dubbed "Australian Lone Eagle"
) and inventor.  He designed and built early aircraft before being the first person to fly solo from England to Australia, and the first person to fly solo across the Southern Atlantic Ocean. He married in 1932 at the age of 39, and died less than a year later after crashing into remote countryside near Florence, Italy during a solo flight record attempt.

==Early life==
Hinkler was born in Bundaberg, Queensland, the son of John William Hinkler, a Prussian-born stockman, and his wife Frances Atkins (née Bonney) Hinkler.
In his childhood, Hinkler would observe ibis flying near a lake at his school. After gaining an understanding on the principles of flight, he constructed and flew two Glider aircraft gliders on beaches near his home town. He later met Arthur Burr Stone,
at a travelling show in Bundaberg and again at the Ekka Brisbane Exhibition where Hinkler worked with Stone to solve a problem with the "Blériot", the worlds first monoplane. In 1913, Hinkler went to England where he worked for the Sopwith Aviation Company,
the beginning of his career in aviation.

==World War I==
During the First World War, Hinkler served with the Royal Naval Air Service as a Air gunner gunner/Air observer observer
in Belgium and France, for which he was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal (United Kingdom) Distinguished Service Medal. In 1918 Hinkler was posted to No. 28 Squadron RAF with which he served as a pilot in Italy.

Hinkler was an "exceptional mathematician and inventor" and "made a lot of aviation instruments which were in use up until the Second World War."
For example, "one was a gadget to correct drift as airplanes fly a little bit on their side, not straight ahead."
Furthermore, "in WWI, Hinkler invented a machine gun adaptor for air gunners. Back then, when the biplanes were flying upside down in combat, the hot, ejected shells would fall and burn the chest of the gunners as they fired. Hinklers invention had the ejected shells all flying off to one side instead."
==Later life and career==
After the war, he worked as a test pilot for the aircraft manufacturer avro A.V. Roe in Southampton. The Australian Government offered £10,000 as a prize for the first flight to Australia; Hinkler entered, but his aeroplane crashed in Europe during a storm.
In 1921, Hinkler shipped a tiny Avro Baby to Sydney.  It was filled with fuel and flown non-stop to Bundaberg, Queensland, a distance of {{convert 1370 km mi}}.

During the 1920s he competed in numerous aviation events and set many records, among which was a non-stop flight from England to Latvia. He was a pilot of the British Schneider Trophy seaplane competitor.

File:Bert Hinkler-MJC.jpg thumb left Hinkler and his Avro Avian
Hinkler flew the first solo flight between England and Australia, departing England on 7 February 1928 and arriving in Darwin, Northern Territory Darwin on 22 February 1928 and back in his home town of Bundaberg on 27 February 1928. This reduced the England-Australia record from 28 days to just under 15½ days. The aircraft used was an Avro Avian, registration G-EBOV.  The flight was little noticed before Hinkler reached India but then media interest intensified.  One paper nicknamed the flyer "Hustling Hinkler"
and he was the subject of the Tin Pan Alley song Hustling Hinkler Up in the Sky.
For the flights in 1920 and 1928 Hinkler had already won two Britannia Trophy Britannia trophies and the gold medal of the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale.
