Bessie Coleman (January 26, 1892{{spaced ndash}}April 30, 1926)
was an American civil aviation civil aviator. She was the first woman of African-American descent and the first of Native Americans in the United States Native American descent, to hold a Pilot certification in the United States pilot license.
She achieved her Pilot licensing and certification international pilot license in 1921.
Born to a family of sharecroppers in Texas, she went into the cotton fields at a young age but also studied in a small Racial segregation in the United States segregated school and went on to attend one term of college at Langston University.  She developed an early interest in flying, but African Americans, Native Americans, and women had no flight-school opportunities in the United States, so she saved up money to go to France to become a licensed pilot. She soon became a successful air show pilot in the United States, and hoped to start a school for African-American fliers.  She died in a plane crash in 1926 while testing her new aircraft.  Her pioneering role was an inspiration to early pilots and to the African-American and Native American communities.

==Early life==
Coleman was born on January 26, 1892, in Atlanta, Texas, the tenth of thirteen children to sharecroppers George Coleman, who was mostly Cherokee and part African-American, and Susan Coleman, who was mostly African-American.
When Coleman was two years old, her family moved to Waxahachie, Texas, where she lived until age 23.
Coleman began attending school in Waxahachie at the age of six. She had to walk four miles each day to her segregated, one-room school, where she loved to read and established herself as an outstanding math student. She completed all eight grades in that school. Every year, Colemans routine of school, chores, and church was interrupted by the cotton harvest. In 1901, George Coleman left his family. He returned to Oklahoma, or Indian Territory, as it was then called, to find better opportunities; but Susan and her family did not go along. At the age of 12, Bessie was accepted into the Missionary Baptist Church School on scholarship. When she turned eighteen, she took her savings and enrolled in the Oklahoma Colored Agricultural and Normal University (now called Langston University) in Langston, Oklahoma Langston. She completed one term before her money ran out and she returned home.
==Career==

===Chicago===
In 1916 at the age of 24, she moved to Chicago, Illinois, where she lived with her brothers.  In Chicago, she worked as a manicurist at the White Sox Barber Shop. There she heard stories from pilots returning home from World War I about flying during the war. She took a second job at a chili parlor to procure money faster to become a pilot.
As American flight schools of the time admitted neither women nor blacks, Robert S. Abbott, founder and publisher of the Chicago Defender, encouraged her to study abroad.
Coleman received financial backing from banker Jesse Binga and the Defender.
===France===
File:Coleman-licens.jpg thumb 250px right Colemans aviation license.
Coleman took a French-language class at the Berlitz Language Schools Berlitz school in Chicago and then traveled to Paris on November 20, 1920 so she could earn her pilot license. She learned to fly in a Nieuport 82 biplane with "a steering system that consisted of a vertical stick the thickness of a baseball bat in front of the pilot and a rudder#Aircraft rudders rudder bar under the pilots feet."
On June 15, 1921, Coleman became the first woman of African-American and Native American descent to earn an aviation pilots license and the first person of African-American and Native American descent to earn an international aviation license from the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale.{{cn date=June 2018}} Determined to polish her skills, Coleman spent the next two months taking lessons from a French ace pilot near Paris and in September 1921 she sailed for New York. She became a media sensation when she returned to the United States.

===Airshows===
{{quote box quoted=true  bgcolor=#F3F0FD  salign=right quote=The air is the only place free from prejudices. 
I knew we had no aviators, neither men nor women, and I knew the Race needed to be represented along this most 
important line, so I thought it my duty to risk my life to learn aviation...  source=– Bessie Coleman
align=left  width=250px}}

With the age of commercial flight still a decade or more in the future, Coleman quickly realized that in order to make a living as a civilian aviator she would have to become a "barnstorming" stunt flier, and perform for paying audiences. But to succeed in this highly competitive arena, she would need advanced lessons and a more extensive repertoire. Returning to Chicago, Coleman could not find anyone willing to teach her, so in February 1922, she sailed again for Europe. She spent the next two months in France completing an advanced course in aviation, then left for the Netherlands to meet with Anthony Fokker, one of the worlds most distinguished aircraft designers. She also traveled to Germany, where she visited the Fokker Corporation and received additional training from one of the companys chief pilots. She then returned to the United States to launch her career in exhibition flying.
