Robert Anderson "Bob" Hoover (January 24, 1922 – October 25, 2016) was a United States Army Air Forces fighter pilot, United States Air Force USAF and civilian test pilot, flight instructor, air show pilot, and aviation record-setter.
Known as the "pilots pilot", Hoover revolutionized modern aerobatics aerobatic flying and has been referred to in many aviation circles as one of the greatest pilots ever to have lived.
{{TOC limit limit=2}}

==Aviation career==
File:Bob Hoover with North American test pilots.jpg thumb Bob Hoover photographed with North American Aviation test pilots, bottom row second from right, c.1957
{{Annotated image  image= HooverMustang.jpg  annotations=  width= 220  height= 160  image-left= -121  image-top= -119  image-width= 650  caption= "Ole Yeller," flown by John Bagley at an air show in Rexburg, Idaho.}}
Hoover learned to fly at Nashville, Tennessee Nashvilles Nashville International Airport Berry Field while working at a local grocery store to pay for the flight training.
He enlisted in the Tennessee Military Department Tennessee National Guard and was sent for pilot training with the United States Army Army.
During World War II, Hoover was sent to Casablanca, where his first major assignment was flight testing the assembled aircraft ready for service.
He was later assigned to the Supermarine Spitfire Spitfire-equipped 52d Operations Group 52d Fighter Group in Sicily.
On February 9, 1944, on his 59th mission, his malfunctioning Mark V Spitfire was shot down by a pilot of Jagdgeschwader 2
in a Focke-Wulf Fw 190 off the coast of Southern France, and he was taken prisoner.
He spent 16 months at the German internment prison camp Stalag Luft 1 in Barth, Germany.
After a staged fight covered his escape from the prison camp, Hoover managed to steal an Focke-Wulf Fw 190 Fw 190 from a recovery units unguarded field — the one flyable plane being kept there for spare parts — and flew to safety in the Netherlands.
He was assigned to flight-test duty at Wilbur Wright Field after the war. There he impressed and befriended Chuck Yeager.
When Yeager was later asked whom he wanted for flight crew for the Supersonic speed supersonic Bell X-1 flight, he named Hoover. Hoover became Yeagers backup pilot in the Bell X-1 program and flew chase for Yeager in a Lockheed P-80 Shooting Star during the Mach number Mach 1 flight.
He also flew chase for the 50th anniversary of the Mach 1 flight in a General Dynamics F-16 Fighting Falcon.
Hoover left the Air Force for civilian jobs in 1948.
After a brief time with Allison Engine Company, he worked as a test/demonstration pilot with North American Aviation, in which capacity he went to Korea to teach pilots in the Korean War how to dive-bomb with the North American F-86 Sabre F-86 Sabre. During his six weeks in Korea, Hoover flew many combat bombing missions over enemy territory, but was denied permission to engage in air-to-air combat flights.
During the 1950s, Hoover visited many active-duty, reserve, and Air National Guard units to demonstrate planes capabilities to their pilots. Hoover flew flight tests on the North American FJ-2 Fury FJ-2 Fury, F-86 Sabre, and the North American F-100 Super Sabre F-100 Super Sabre.

In the early 1960s, Hoover began flying the North American P-51 Mustang at air shows around the country. The Hoover Mustang (N2251D) was purchased by North American Aviation from Dave Lindsays Cavalier Aircraft Cavalier Aircraft Corp. in 1962. A second Mustang (N51RH), later named "Ole Yeller", was purchased by North American Rockwell from Cavalier in 1971 to replace the earlier aircraft, which had been destroyed in a ground accident when an oxygen bottle exploded after being overfilled. Hoover demonstrated the Mustang and later the Aero Commander 500 family Aero Commander at hundreds of air shows until his retirement in the 1990s. In 1997, Hoover sold "Ole Yeller" to his good friend John Bagley of Rexburg, Idaho. "Ole Yeller" still flies frequently and is based at the Legacy Flight Museum
in Rexburg.

Hoover set transcontinental, time-to-climb, and speed records,
and personally knew such great aviators as Wright brothers Orville Wright, Eddie Rickenbacker, Charles Lindbergh, Jimmy Doolittle, Chuck Yeager, Jacqueline Cochran, Neil Armstrong, and Yuri Gagarin.
File:Bob Hoover Photo D Ramey Logan.jpg thumb left Hoover at the final launch of SpaceShipOne in 2004
Hoover was best known for his civil air show career, which started when he was hired to demonstrate the capabilities of Aero Commanders Aero Commander 500 family Shrike Commander, a twin piston-engined business aircraft that had developed a staid reputation due to its bulky shape. Hoover showed the strength of the plane as he put the aircraft through rolls, loops, and other maneuvers, which most people would not associate with executive aircraft. As a grand finale, he shut down both engines and executed a loop and an eight-point hesitation slow roll as he headed back to the runway. Upon landing he would touch down on one tire followed gradually by the other. After pulling off the runway, he would start his engines to taxi back to the parking area. On airfields with large enough parking ramps (such as the Reno Stead Airport, where the Reno Air Races take place), Hoover would sometimes land directly on the ramp and coast all the way back to his parking spot in front of the grandstand without restarting the engines. He was also known for creating the stunt of successfully pouring a cup of tea while performing a g-force 1G barrel roll.
==End of career==
File:Bob Hoover 2005 Gathering of Eagles Lithograph.jpg thumb Hoovers 2005 Gathering of Eagles Lithograph
File:HooverShrike.JPG thumb right Hoovers Shrike Commander at the Udvar-Hazy Center
His air show aerobatics career ended in 1999, but was marked by issues with the FAA over his medical certification that began when Hoovers medical certificate was revoked by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in the early 1990s.
Shortly before his revocation, Hoover experienced serious engine problems in a North American T-28 Trojan off the coast of California. During his return to Torrance, California Torrance, he was able to keep the engine running intermittently by constantly manipulating the throttle, mixture, and propeller levers. The engine seized at the moment of touchdown. Hoover believed his successful management of this difficult emergency should have convinced the FAA that he hadnt lost any ability.
Meanwhile, Hoover was granted a pilots license, and medical certificate by Australias aviation authorities.
Hoovers medical certificate was restored shortly afterward and he returned to the American air show circuit for several years before retiring in 1999. At 77 years old Hoover still felt capable of performing and passed a rigorous FAA physical post retirement, but he was unable to obtain insurance for air shows. Although he had had free insurance for several years as part of air show sponsorship deals, he was forced in 1999 to pay for it out of his own pocket and could not get coverage under $2 million. His final air show was on November 13, 1999 at Luke Air Force base. His last flight in his famous Shrike Commander was on October 10, 2003 from Lakeland, Florida to the Smithsonian Air and Space museum in Washington D.C. with long time friend Steve Clegg.

Following Hoovers retirement, his Shrike Commander was placed on display at the National Air and Space Museum, Udvar-Hazy Center, in Dulles, Virginia.
In 2007, Hoover was inducted into the International Air &amp; Space Hall of Fame at the San Diego Air &amp; Space Museum.
==Death==
Hoover died on October 25, 2016 near his home in Los Angeles at the age of 94.
A memorial service and celebration of life honoring Bob Hoover was held on November 18, 2016, hosted by aerobatic legend Sean D. Tucker and world renowned pilot Clay Lacy at the Van Nuys Airport. Nearly 1,500 family and friends attended the memorial, with speakers such as Hollywood icon Harrison Ford, film producer David Ellison, Jonna Doolittle (granddaughter of Jimmy Doolittle) and many others. The event culminated with the United States Air Force Honor guard Honor Guard presenting the American Flag to the family - which coincided with a three element fly-over. The lead element featured a Rockwell Sabreliner similar to that which Hoover flew during airshows, along with two F-16 Falcon F-16s from the USAF Thunderbirds and a CT-114 from the Canadian Forces Snowbirds. The second element featured the USAF Heritage Flight with an F-22 Raptor and two F-86 Sabrejet F-86 Sabres, and the third and final installment featured a four-ship World War II warbird flight, with the P-51 Ole Yeller pulling up in the missing man formation on the final note of Taps.
==Honors and recognition==
File:Bob Hoover and vet at Oshkosh 2011.jpg thumb 270px left Bob Hoover meeting vet at EAA AirVenture Oshkosh in 2011
Hoover was considered one of the founding fathers of modern aerobatics and was described by General Jimmy Doolittle as "the greatest stick-and-rudder man who ever lived".
In the Centennial of Flight edition of Air &amp; Space/Smithsonian, he was named the third greatest aviator in history.

During his career, Hoover was awarded the following military medals: the Distinguished Flying Cross (United States) Distinguished Flying Cross, the Soldiers Medal for non-combat valor, the Air Medal with several oak leaf clusters, the Purple Heart, and the French Croix de Guerre.
He was also made an honorary member of the Blue Angels, the United States Air Force Thunderbirds Thunderbirds, the Snowbirds RCAF Snowbirds, the American Fighter Aces Association, and the original Eagle Squadrons Eagle Squadron, and received an Award of Merit from the American Fighter Pilots Association.
He was inducted into the National Aviation Hall of Fame in 1988 and to the Aerospace Walk of Honor in 1992.
Hoover received the Living Legends of Aviation Freedom of Flight Award in 2006, which was renamed the Bob Hoover Freedom of Flight Award the following year. In 2007, he received the Smithsonians National Air and Space Museum Trophy
and was inducted into the International Air &amp; Space Hall of Fame at the San Diego Air &amp; Space Museum.
On May 18, 2010, Hoover delivered the 2010 Charles A. Lindbergh Memorial Lecture at the Smithsonian Institutions National Air and Space Museum in Washington, D.C. The U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School conferred an Honorary degree#Honorary doctorates honorary doctorate on Hoover at the schools December 2010 graduation ceremony.
Flying (magazine) Flying magazine placed Hoover number 10 on its list of "The 51 Heroes of Aviation" in 2013.
On December 12, 2014, at the Aero Club of Washingtons 67th annual Wright Memorial Dinner, Hoover was awarded the National Aeronautic Associations Wright Brothers Memorial Trophy.

The R.A. "Bob" Hoover Trophy is named in honor of him, and awarded to those who have demonstrated the airmanship, leadership, and passion that Hoover did during his career and life.
On March 11, 2017, at the 2017 United States Air Force Academy Recognition Dinner, Hoover was announced as the Exemplar for the USAFA Class of 2020.{{Citation needed date=March 2017}}

== Flying the Feathered Edge ==
{{Main Flying the Feathered Edge: The Bob Hoover Project}}
Hoovers decades of revolutionary flying formed the framework for the 2014 documentary film, Flying the Feathered Edge: The Bob Hoover Project, directed by Kim Furst, which centers around Hoovers life and legacy. It was premiered at the EAA AirVenture Oshkosh convention in July 2014.
Harrison Ford and Sean D. Tucker frame the documentary about the aviation pioneer.
The film begins with a tribute to Hoovers flying skills by Neil Armstrong, and stars Burt Rutan, Dick Rutan, Carroll Shelby, Eugene Cernan Gene Cernan, Medal of Honor Recipient Col. George E. Bud Day, and Clay Lacy, among others.
Flying the Feathered Edge was a three-year project and tells Hoovers story from his first flying lessons before World War II to his combat and postwar careers as a test pilot and air show legend.
Reporter Fred Georges review in the Aviation Week Aviation Week Network stated, "After 90 minutes there were few dry eyes in the house as the credits rolled at the end of the documentary ... in Aviation Weeks opinion, a film well worth our readers viewing time when it appears in nearby theaters."
The official film premier was held August 2014 at the Rhode Island International Film Festival at the Veterans Memorial Auditorium (Providence) in Providence, Rhode Island,
winning the Grand Prize "Soldiers and Sacrifice Award".
The film received the Combs Gates Award from the National Aviation Hall of Fame in 2015 for "excellence in preserving aerospace history".
==Hoover Nozzle and Hoover Ring==
The "Hoover Nozzle", used on jet fuel pumps, is designed with a flattened bell shape. It cannot be inserted in the filler neck of a plane with the "Hoover Ring" installed, thus preventing the tank from accidentally being filled with jet fuel.

This system was given this name following an accident in which Hoover was seriously injured, when both engines on his Shrike Commander failed during takeoff. Investigators found that the plane had just been fueled by line personnel who mistook the piston-engine Shrike for a similar turboprop model, filling the tanks with jet fuel instead of avgas (aviation gasoline).
There was enough avgas in the fuel system to taxi to the runway and take off, but then the jet fuel was drawn into the engines, causing them to stop.

Once Hoover recovered, he widely promoted
the use of the new type of nozzle with the support and funding of the National Air Transportation Association, General Aviation Manufacturers Association, and various other aviation groups (the nozzle is now required by Federal regulation on jet fuel pumps).
==See also==
{{Portal Biography United States Air Force}}
*List of prisoners of war
*Society of Experimental Test Pilots
