William Bradley "Brad" Pitt (born December 18, 1963) is an American actor and film producer. He has received List of awards and nominations received by Brad Pitt multiple awards and nominations including an Academy Award as producer under his own company Plan B Entertainment.

Pitt first Brad Pitt filmography gained recognition as a cowboy hitchhiker in the road movie Thelma &amp; Louise (1991). His first leading roles in big-budget productions came with the drama films A River Runs Through It (film) A River Runs Through It (1992) and Legends of the Fall (1994), and horror film Interview with the Vampire (film) Interview with the Vampire (1994). He gave critically acclaimed performances in the crime thriller Seven (1995 film) Seven and the science fiction film 12 Monkeys (both 1995), the latter earning him a Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor - Motion Picture Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor and an Academy Award nomination.

Pitt starred in the cult film Fight Club (1999) and the heist film Oceans Eleven (2001) and its sequels, Oceans Twelve (2004) and Oceans Thirteen (2007). His greatest commercial successes have been Troy (film) Troy (2004), Mr. &amp; Mrs. Smith (2005 film) Mr. &amp; Mrs. Smith (2005), and World War Z (film) World War Z (2013). Pitt received his second and third Academy Award nominations for his leading performances in The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (film) The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (2008) and Moneyball (film) Moneyball (2011). He produced The Departed (2006) and 12 Years a Slave (film) 12 Years a Slave (2013), both of which won the Academy Award for Best Picture, and also The Tree of Life (film) The Tree of Life, Moneyball, and The Big Short (film) The Big Short (2015), all of which garnered Best Picture nominations.

As a public figure, Pitt has been cited as one of the most influential and powerful people in the American entertainment industry. For a number of years, he was cited as the worlds Sex symbol most attractive man by various media outlets, and his personal life is the subject of wide publicity. Divorced from actress Jennifer Aniston after five years of marriage, he married actress Angelina Jolie in 2014. They have six children together, three of whom were adopted internationally. In 2016, Jolie filed for a divorce from Pitt, which is currently pending.
==Early life==
William Bradley Pitt was born in Shawnee, Oklahoma, to William Alvin Pitt, who ran a trucking company, and Jane Etta (née Hillhouse), a school counsellor.
The family soon moved to Springfield, Missouri, where he lived together with his younger siblings, Douglas Pitt Douglas (born 1966) and Julie Neal (born 1969).
Born into a conservative household,
he was raised as Southern Baptist Convention Southern Baptist, but has since stated that he does not "have a great relationship with religion" and that he "oscillate[s] between agnosticism and atheism".
Pitt has described Springfield as "Mark Twain country, Jesse James country", having grown up with "a lot of hills, a lot of lakes".
Pitt attended Kickapoo High School (Springfield, Missouri) Kickapoo High School, where he was a member of the golf, swimming and tennis teams.
He participated in the schools Key Club Key and Forensics (public speaking) Forensics clubs, in school debates, and in musicals.
Following his graduation from high school, Pitt enrolled in the University of Missouri in 1982, majoring in journalism with a focus on advertising.
As graduation approached, Pitt did not feel ready to settle down. He loved films—"a portal into different worlds for me"—and, since films were not made in Missouri, he decided to go to where they were made.
Two weeks before earning his degree, Pitt left the university and moved to Los Angeles, where he took acting lessons and worked odd jobs.
He has named his early acting heroes as Gary Oldman, Sean Penn and Mickey Rourke.
==Career==

===1987–1993: Early work===
While struggling to establish himself in Los Angeles, Pitt took lessons from acting coach Roy London.
Pitts acting career began in 1987, with uncredited parts in the films No Way Out (1987 film) No Way Out (1987), No Mans Land (1987 film) No Mans Land (1987) and Less Than Zero (film) Less Than Zero (1987).
In May 1987, his television debut came with a two-episode role on the NBC soap opera Another World (TV series) Another World.
In November of the same year, Pitt had a guest appearance on the American Broadcasting Company ABC sitcom Growing Pains.
He appeared in four episodes of the CBS primetime series Dallas (1978 TV series) Dallas between December 1987 and February 1988 as Randy, the boyfriend of Charlie Wade (played by Shalane McCall).
Later in 1988, Pitt made a guest appearance on the Fox Broadcasting Company Fox police drama 21 Jump Street.
In the same year, the Yugoslavian–U.S. co-production The Dark Side of the Sun (film) The Dark Side of the Sun (1988) gave Pitt his first leading film role, as a young American taken by his family to the Adriatic Sea Adriatic to find a remedy for a skin condition. The film was shelved at the outbreak of the Croatian War of Independence, and was not released until 1997.
Pitt made two motion picture appearances in 1989: the first in a supporting role in the comedy Happy Together (1989 American film) Happy Together; the second a featured role in the horror film Cutting Class, the first of Pitts films to reach theaters.
He made guest appearances on television series Head of the Class, Freddys Nightmares, Thirtysomething (TV series) Thirtysomething, and (for a second time) Growing Pains.
Pitt was cast as Billy Canton, a drug addict who takes advantage of a young runaway (played by Juliette Lewis) in the 1990 NBC television movie Too Young to Die?, the story of an abused teenager sentenced to death for a murder.
Ken Tucker, television reviewer for Entertainment Weekly wrote: "Pitt is a magnificent slimeball as her hoody boyfriend; looking and sounding like a malevolent John Cougar Mellencamp, hes really scary."
The same year, Pitt co-starred in six episodes of the short-lived Fox drama Glory Days (1990 TV series) Glory Days and took a supporting role in the HBO television film The Image (TV) The Image.
His next appearance came in the 1991 film Across the Tracks; Pitt portrayed Joe Maloney, a high school runner with a criminal brother, played by Ricky Schroder Rick Schroder.
After years of supporting roles in film and frequent television guest appearances, Pitt attracted wider recognition in his supporting role in Ridley Scotts 1991 road film Thelma &amp; Louise.
He played J.D., a small-time criminal who befriends Thelma (Geena Davis). His love scene with Davis has been cited as the event that defined Pitt as a sex symbol.
After Thelma &amp; Louise, Pitt starred in the 1991 film Johnny Suede, a low-budget picture about an aspiring rock star,
and the 1992 live-action/animated fantasy film Cool World,
although neither furthered his career, having poor reviews and box office performance.
Pitt took the role of Paul Maclean in the 1992 biographical film A River Runs Through It (film) A River Runs Through It, directed by Robert Redford.
His portrayal of the character was described by People (magazine) People{{}}s Janet Mock as a career-making performance,
proving that Pitt could be more than a "cowboy-hatted hunk."
He has admitted to feeling under pressure when making the film
and thought it one of his "weakest performances ... Its so weird that it ended up being the one that I got the most attention for."
Pitt believed that he benefited from working with such a talented cast and crew. He compared working with Redford to playing tennis with a superior player, saying "when you play with somebody better than you, your game gets better."
In 1993, Pitt reunited with Juliette Lewis for the road film Kalifornia. He played Early Grayce, a serial killer and the boyfriend of Lewiss character in a performance described by Peter Travers of Rolling Stone as "outstanding, all boyish charm and then a snort that exudes pure menace."
Pitt also garnered attention for a brief appearance in the cult hit True Romance as a stoner named Floyd, providing much needed comic relief to the action film.
He capped the year by winning a National Association of Theatre Owners ShoWest Award for Male Star of Tomorrow.
===1994–1998: Breakthrough ===

File:Brad Pitt Palm Film Festival.jpg thumb upright alt=A side view of a man, who is facing to the left, with light brown hair. He is wearing a black suit and tie with a white shirt. Another male, also wearing a suit, is visible in the background.  Pitt at the 2007 Palm Springs International Film Festival
1994 marked a significant turning point in Pitts career. Starring as the vampire Louis de Pointe du Lac in the horror film Interview with the Vampire (film) Interview with the Vampire: The Vampire Chronicles, based on Anne Rices 1976 Interview with the Vampire novel of the same name,
he was part of an ensemble cast that included Tom Cruise, Kirsten Dunst, Christian Slater, and Antonio Banderas.
Despite his winning two MTV Movie Awards at the 1995 MTV Movie Awards 1995 ceremony,
his performance was poorly received. According to the Dallas Observer, "Brad Pitt [...] is a large part of the problem [in the film]. When directors play up his cocky, hunkish, folksy side [...] hes a joy to watch. But theres nothing about him that suggests inner torment or even self-awareness, which makes him a boring Louis."
Following the release of Interview with the Vampire, Pitt starred in Legends of the Fall (1994),
based on a novel by the same name by Jim Harrison, set in the American West during the first four decades of the twentieth century. Portraying Tristan Ludlow, son of Colonel William Ludlow (Anthony Hopkins) a Cornish American Cornish immigrant,
Pitt received his first Golden Globe Award nomination, in the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Drama Best Actor category.
Aidan Quinn and Henry Thomas co-starred as Pitts brothers. Although the films reception was mixed,
many film critics praised Pitts performance. Janet Maslin of The New York Times said, "Pitts diffident mix of acting and attitude works to such heartthrob perfection its a shame the films superficiality gets in his way."
The Deseret News predicted that Legends of the Fall would solidify Pitts reputation as a lead actor.
In 1995, Pitt starred alongside Morgan Freeman and Gwyneth Paltrow in the crime thriller Seven (1995 film) Seven, playing a detective on the trail of a serial killer.
Pitt called it a great movie and declared the part would expand his acting horizons.
He expressed his intent to move on from "this pretty boy thing [...] and play someone with flaws."
His performance was critically well received, with Variety (magazine) Variety saying that it was screen acting at its best, further remarking on Pitts ability to turn in a "determined, energetic, creditable job" as the detective.
Seven earned $327 million at the international box office.
Following the success of Seven, Pitt took a supporting role as Jeffrey Goines in Terry Gilliams 1995 science-fiction film 12 Monkeys. The movie received predominantly positive reviews, with Pitt praised in particular. Janet Maslin of the New York Times called Twelve Monkeys "fierce and disturbing" and remarked on Pitts "startlingly frenzied performance", concluding that he "electrifies Jeffrey with a weird magnetism that becomes important later in the film."
He won a Golden Globe Award for Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor - Motion Picture Best Supporting Actor for the film
and received his first Academy Award nomination for Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor Best Supporting Actor.
The following year he had a role in the legal drama Sleepers (film) Sleepers (1996), based on Lorenzo Carcaterras novel of the same name.
The film received mixed reviews.
In the 1997 film The Devils Own Pitt starred, opposite Harrison Ford, as the Provisional Irish Republican Army Irish Republican Army terrorist Rory Devany,
a role for which he was required to learn an Irish accent.
Critical opinion was divided on his accent; "Pitt finds the right tone of moral ambiguity, but at times his Irish brogue is too convincing – its hard to understand what hes saying", wrote the San Francisco Chronicle.
The Charleston Gazette opined that it had favored Pitts accent over the movie.
The Devils Own grossed $140 million worldwide,
but was a critical failure. Later that year he led as Austrian mountaineer Heinrich Harrer in the Jean-Jacques Annaud film Seven Years in Tibet (1997 film) Seven Years in Tibet.
Pitt trained for months for the role, which demanded significant mountain climbing and trekking practice, including rock climbing in California and the European Alps with his co-star David Thewlis.
The film received mostly negative reviews, and was generally considered a disappointment.
Pitt had the lead role in 1998s fantasy romance film Meet Joe Black. He portrayed a death (personification) personification of death inhabiting the body of a young man to learn what it is like to be human.
The film received mixed reviews, and many were critical of Pitts performance. According to Mick LaSalle of the San Francisco Chronicle, Pitt was unable to "make an audience believe that he knows all the mysteries of death and eternity."
Roger Ebert stated "Pitt is a fine actor, but this performance is a miscalculation."
===1999–2003===
In 1999, Pitt portrayed Fight Club (novel) Tyler Durden in Fight Club,
a film adaptation of Chuck Palahniuks Fight Club (novel) novel of the same name, directed by David Fincher.
Pitt prepared for the part with lessons in boxing, taekwondo, and grappling.
To look the part, Pitt consented to the removal of pieces of his front teeth which were restored when filming ended.
While promoting Fight Club, Pitt said that the film explored not taking ones aggressions out on someone else but to "have an experience, take a punch more and see how you come out on the other end."
Fight Club premiered at the 1999 Venice International Film Festival.
Despite divided critical opinion on the film as a whole,
Pitts performance was widely praised. Paul Clinton of CNN noted the risky yet successful nature of the film,
while Variety remarked upon Pitts ability to be "cool, charismatic and more dynamically physical, perhaps than [...] his breakthrough role in Thelma and Louise".
In spite of a worse-than-expected box office performance, Fight Club became a cult classic after its DVD release in 2000.
File:Brad Pitt at Incirlik2.jpg thumb upright Pitt in December 2001

Pitt was cast as an Irish Gypsy boxing boxer with a barely intelligible accent in Guy Ritchies 2000 gangster film Snatch (film) Snatch.
Several reviewers were critical of Snatch; however, most praised Pitt.
Mick LaSalle of the San Francisco Chronicle said Pitt was "ideally cast as an Irishman whose accent is so thick even Brits cant understand him", going on to say that, before Snatch, Pitt had been "shackled by roles that called for brooding introspection, but recently he has found his calling in black comic outrageousness and flashy extroversion;"
while Amy Taubin of The Village Voice claimed that "Pitt gets maximum comic mileage out of a one-joke role".
The following year Pitt starred opposite Julia Roberts in the romantic comedy The Mexican,
a film that garnered a range of reviews
but enjoyed box office success.
Pitts next role, in 2001s $143 million-grossing Cold War thriller Spy Game,
was as Tom Bishop, an operative of the Central Intelligence Agency CIAs Special Activities Division, mentored by Robert Redfords character.
Mark Holcomb of Salon.com enjoyed the film, although he noted that neither Pitt nor Redford provided "much of an emotional connection for the audience".
On November 22, 2001, Pitt made a guest appearance in the The One with the Rumor eighth season of the television series Friends, playing a man with a grudge against Rachel Green, played by Jennifer Aniston, to whom Pitt was married at the time.
For this performance he was nominated for an Primetime Emmy Award Emmy Award in the category of Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor – Comedy Series Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series.
In December 2001, Pitt played Rusty Ryan in the heist film Oceans Eleven (2001 film) Oceans Eleven, a remake of the 1960 Oceans Eleven (1960 film) Rat Pack original. He joined an ensemble cast including George Clooney, Matt Damon, Andy García, and Julia Roberts.
Well received by critics, Oceans Eleven was highly successful at the box office, earning $450 million worldwide.
Pitt appeared in two episodes of MTVs reality series Jackass (TV series) Jackass in February 2002, first running through the streets of Los Angeles with several cast members in gorilla suits,
and participating in his own staged abduction in another episode.
In the same year, Pitt had a cameo role in George Clooneys directorial debut Confessions of a Dangerous Mind.
He took on his first voice-acting roles in 2003, speaking as the titular character of the DreamWorks animated film Sinbad: Legend of the Seven Seas
and playing Boomhauers brother, Patch Boomhauer Patch, in an episode of the animated television series King of the Hill.
===2004–2013 ===
Pitt had two major film roles in 2004, starring as Achilles in Troy (film) Troy, and reprising his role, Rusty Ryan, in the sequel Oceans Twelve. He spent six months sword training before the filming of Troy, based on the Iliad.
An on-set injury to his Achilles tendon delayed production on the picture for several weeks.
Stephen Hunter of The Washington Times stated that Pitt excelled at such a demanding role.
Troy was the first film produced by Plan B Entertainment, a film production company he had founded two years earlier with Jennifer Aniston and Brad Grey, CEO of Paramount Pictures.
Oceans Twelve earned $362 million worldwide,
and Pitt and Clooneys dynamic was described by CNNs Paul Clinton as "the best male chemistry since Paul Newman and Robert Redford."
In 2005, Pitt starred in the Doug Liman-directed action comedy Mr. &amp; Mrs. Smith (2005 film) Mr. &amp; Mrs. Smith, in which a bored married couple discover that each is an assassin sent to kill the other. The feature received reasonable reviews but was generally lauded for the chemistry between Pitt and Angelina Jolie, who played his characters wife Jane Smith. The Star Tribune noted that "while the story feels haphazard, the movie gets by on gregarious charm, galloping energy and the stars thermonuclear screen chemistry".
Mr. &amp; Mrs. Smith earned $478 million worldwide, making it one of the biggest hits of 2005.
File:BradPittBAR08.jpg thumb upright left Pitt at the Burn After Reading premiere in August 2008

For his next film, Pitt starred opposite Cate Blanchett in Alejandro González Iñárritus multiperspectivity multi-narrative drama Babel (film) Babel (2006).
Pitts performance was critically well-received, and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer said that he was credible and gave the film visibility.
Pitt later said he regarded taking the part as one of the best decisions of his career.
The film was screened at a special presentation at the 2006 Cannes Film Festival
and was later featured at the 2006 Toronto International Film Festival.
Babel received seven Academy and Golden Globe award nominations, winning the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Drama Best Drama Golden Globe, and earned Pitt a nomination for the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor - Motion Picture Best Supporting Actor Golden Globe.
That same year, Pitts company Plan B Entertainment produced The Departed, which won the Academy Award for Best Picture. Pitt was credited on-screen as a producer; however, only Graham King was ruled eligible for the Oscar win.
Reprising his role as Rusty Ryan in a third picture, Pitt starred in 2007s Oceans Thirteen.
While less lucrative than the first two films, this sequel earned $311 million at the international box office.
Pitts next film role was as American outlaw Jesse James in the 2007 Western (genre) Western drama The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford, adapted from Ron Hansen (novelist) Ron Hansens The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford (novel) 1983 novel of the same name.
Directed by Andrew Dominik and produced by Pitts company Plan B Entertainment, the film premiered at the 64th Venice International Film Festival 2007 Venice Film Festival,
with Pitt playing a "scary and charismatic" role, according to Lewis Beale of Film Journal International,
and earning Pitt the Volpi Cup award for Best Actor at the 64th Venice International Film Festival.
He eventually collected the award one year later at the 65th Venice International Film Festival 2008 festival.
Pitts next appearance was in the 2008 black comedy Burn After Reading, his first collaboration with the Coen brothers. The film received a positive reception from critics, with The Guardian calling it "a tightly wound, slickly plotted spy comedy",
noting that Pitts performance was one of the funniest.
He was later cast as Benjamin Button, the lead in David Finchers 2008 film The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (film) The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, a loosely adapted version of a 1921 The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (short story) short story by F. Scott Fitzgerald. The story follows a man who is born an octogenarian and ages in reverse,
with Pitts "sensitive" performance making Benjamin Button a "timeless masterpiece", according to Michael Sragow of The Baltimore Sun.
The performance earned Pitt his first Screen Actors Guild Award nomination,
as well as a fourth Golden Globe and second Academy Award nomination,
all in the category for Best Actor. The film received thirteen Academy Award nominations in total, and grossed $329 million at the box office worldwide.
File:Brad Pitt 2012.jpg thumb upright Pitt at the 65th British Academy Film Awards in 2012. alt=A Caucasian male has long brown hair pushed back and a short brown beard. He wears a black suit jacket and a white shirt.
Pitts next leading role came in 2009 with the Quentin Tarantino-directed war film Inglourious Basterds, which premiered at the 2009 Cannes Film Festival.
Pitt played Lieutenant Aldo Raine, an American resistance fighter battling Nazis in German-occupied France.
The film was a box office hit, taking $311 million worldwide,
and garnered generally favorable reviews.
The film received multiple List of accolades received by Inglourious Basterds awards and nominations, including eight Academy Award nominations and seven MTV Movie Award nominations, including MTV Movie Award for Best Performance Best Male Performance for Pitt.
He next voiced the superhero character Metro Man in the 2010 animated feature Megamind.
Pitt produced and appeared in Terrence Malicks experimental drama The Tree of Life (film) The Tree of Life, co-starring Sean Penn, which won the Palme dOr at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival.
In a performance that attracted strong praise, he portrayed the Oakland Athletics general manager Billy Beane in the drama Moneyball (film) Moneyball, which is based on the 2003 Moneyball book of the same name written by Michael Lewis.
Moneyball received six Academy Award nominations including Best Picture and Best Actor for Pitt.
His next role was as mob hitman Jackie Cogan in Andrew Dominiks 2012 Killing Them Softly, based on the novel Cogans Trade by George V. Higgins.
In 2013, Pitt starred in World War Z (film) World War Z, a thriller about a zombie apocalypse, based on Max Brooks World War Z novel of the same name. Pitt also produced the film.
World War Z grossed $540 million at the box office worldwide,
becoming Pitts highest grossing picture.
Next in 2013, he produced, and played a small role in, 12 Years a Slave (film) 12 Years a Slave, a historical drama based on the autobiography of Solomon Northup.
The film received critical acclaim
and was nominated for nine Academy Awards, winning three, including Academy Award for Best Picture Best Picture.
Also in 2013, Pitt had a supporting role in Ridley Scotts The Counselor.
Plan B Entertainment landed its first television series on the 2013–2014 schedule, as their joint venture with ABC Studios, the sci-fi/fantasy drama Resurrection (U.S. TV series) Resurrection, was picked up by American Broadcasting Company ABC.
===2014–present===
File:War Machine Japan Premiere Red Carpet- Brad Pitt (38338138066) (cropped).jpg thumb upright left Pitt at the premiere of War Machine (film) War Machine in Japan in May 2017

Pitt starred in Fury (2014 film) Fury, a World War II film directed and written by David Ayer, and co-starring Shia LaBeouf, Logan Lerman, Jon Bernthal and Michael Peña.
The film was released on October 17, 2014.
By the end of its run, Fury proved to be a commercial and critical success; it grossed more than $211 million worldwide
and received highly positive reviews from critics.
In 2015, Pitt starred opposite his wife, Jolie, in her third directorial effort, By the Sea (2015 film) By the Sea, a romantic drama about a marriage in crisis, based on her screenplay. The film was their first collaboration since 2005s Mr. &amp; Mrs. Smith. Pitts next role came with the biographical comedy-drama The Big Short (film) The Big Short, which he also produced. The film was a commercial and critical success. It went on to gross over $102 million worldwide
and received positive reviews from critics.
The film was nominated for five Academy Awards, including Best Picture, earning Pitt his third Academy Award nomination as producer. In 2016, Pitt starred in Robert Zemeckiss romantic thriller Allied (film) Allied, in which he plays a spy assassin who falls in love with a French spy (played by Marion Cotillard) during a mission to kill a German official in World War II.
In 2017, he starred in the Netflix satirical war comedy War Machine (film) War Machine,
which he also produced.
Pitt played a recurring role as a weatherman on the late-night talk show The Jim Jefferies Show throughout 2017.
In 2016 it was announced that Pitt will star in the upcoming sequel to World War Z,
with official release date set as June 9, 2017.
However, in early 2017, the release date was announced to be indefinitely delayed.
In June, David Fincher was confirmed to direct the World War Z sequel,
marking Pitt and Finchers fourth collaboration. Next, Pitt will star in James Gray (film director) James Grays deep space epic Ad Astra (film) Ad Astra, in which he will play the slightly autistic space engineer Roy McBride who searches across the galaxy for his father, played by Tommy Lee Jones.
In February 2018, it was announced that Pitt will star opposite Leonardo DiCaprio as Cliff Booth, a stunt double, in Quentin Tarantinos upcoming film Once Upon a Time in Hollywood about the Manson Family murders.
==Humanitarian and political causes==
Pitt visited the University of Missouri campus in October 2004 to encourage students to vote in the United States presidential election, 2004 2004 U.S. presidential election,
in which he supported John Kerry.
Later in October he publicly supported the principle of public funding for stem cell embryonic stem-cell research. "We have to make sure that we open up these avenues so that our best and our brightest can go find these cures that they believe they will find", he said.
In support of this he endorsed California Constitution Article XXXV Proposition 71, a California ballot initiative intended to provide state government funding for stem-cell research.
File:Brad Pitt June 2014 (cropped).jpg thumb upright Pitt at the "Global Summit to End Sexual Violence in Conflict", June 2014

Pitt supports the ONE Campaign, an organization aimed at combating AIDS and poverty in the developing world.
He narrated the 2005 Public Broadcasting Service PBS public television series Rx for Survival: A Global Health Challenge, which discusses current global health issues.
The following year Pitt and Jolie flew to Haiti, where they visited a school supported by Yéle Haïti, a charity founded by Haitian-born hip hop musician Wyclef Jean.
In May 2007, Pitt and Jolie donated $1 million to three organizations in Chad and Sudan dedicated to those affected by the crisis in the Darfur region.
Along with Clooney, Damon, Don Cheadle, David Pressman, and Jerry Weintraub, Pitt is one of the founders of Not On Our Watch, an organization that focuses global attention on stopping "mass atrocities".
Pitt has a sustained interest in architecture,
even taking time away from film to study computer-aided design at the Los Angeles offices of renowned architect Frank Gehry.
He narrated Design e2, a PBS television series focused on worldwide efforts to build environmentally friendly structures through sustainable architecture and design.
In 2000, he co-authored an architectural book on the Robert R. Blacker House Blacker House with the architects Thomas A. Heinz and Randell Makinson.
In 2006, he founded the Make It Right Foundation New Orleans Make It Right Foundation, organizing housing professionals in New Orleans to finance and construct 150 sustainable, affordable new houses in New Orleanss Ninth Ward of New Orleans Ninth Ward following the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina.
The project involves 13 architectural firms and the environmental organization Global Green USA, with several of the firms donating their services.
Pitt and philanthropist Steve Bing have each committed $5 million in donations.
The first six homes were completed in October 2008,
and in September 2009 Pitt received an award in recognition of the project from the United States Green Building Council U.S. Green Building Council, a non-profit trade organization that promotes sustainability in how buildings are designed, built and operated.
Pitt met with U.S. President Barack Obama and Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi in March 2009 to promote his concept of green housing as a national model and to discuss federal funding possibilities.
In September 2006, Pitt and Jolie established a charitable organization, the Jolie-Pitt Foundation, to aid humanitarian causes around the world.
The foundation made initial donations of $1 million each to Global Action for Children and Doctors Without Borders,
followed by an October 2006 donation of $100,000 to the Daniel Pearl Foundation, an organization created in memory of the late American journalist Daniel Pearl.
According to federal filings, Pitt and Jolie invested $8.5 million into the foundation in 2006; it gave away $2.4 million in 2006
and $3.4 million in 2007.
In June 2009 the Jolie-Pitt Foundation donated $1 million to a U.N. refugee agency to help Pakistanis displaced by fighting between troops and Taliban militants.
In January 2010 the foundation donated $1 million to Doctors Without Borders for emergency medical assistance to help victims of the 2010 Haiti earthquake Haiti earthquake.
Pitt is a supporter of same-sex marriage.
In an October 2006 interview with Esquire (magazine) Esquire, Pitt said that he would marry Jolie when everyone in America is legally able to marry.
In September 2008, he donated $100,000 to the campaign against Californias 2008 ballot proposition California Proposition 8 (2008) Proposition 8, an initiative to overturn In re Marriage Cases the state Supreme Court decision that had Same-sex marriage in California legalized same-sex marriage.
In March 2012, Pitt was featured in a performance of Dustin Lance Blacks play, 8 (play) 8 — a staged reenactment of the Perry v. Brown federal trial that overturned Californias Proposition 8 Prop 8 ban on same-sex marriage — as Judge Vaughn Walker.
In September 2012, Pitt reaffirmed his support of President Obama, saying, "I am an Obama supporter and Im backing his US election campaign."
==Personal life==

===Relationships===
File:Angelina Jolie Brad Pitt Cannes.jpg thumb alt=A Caucasian man and woman in the foreground of the image, while others are visible behind them. The woman has brown hair, which is tied back. The man has his dark brown hair parted. He is wearing a black suit and bow-tie with a white shirt. Angelina Jolie and Pitt at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival

In the late 1980s and early 1990s, Pitt was involved in successive relationships with several of his co-stars, including Robin Givens (Head of the Class),
Jill Schoelen (Cutting Class),
and Juliette Lewis (Too Young to Die? and Kalifornia).
In addition, Pitt had a much-publicized romance and engagement to his Seven (1995 film) Seven co-star, Gwyneth Paltrow, whom he dated from 1994 to 1997.
Pitt met Friends actress Jennifer Aniston in 1998 and married her in a private wedding ceremony in Malibu, California Malibu on July 29, 2000.
In January 2005, Pitt and Aniston announced they had decided to separate. Two months later, Aniston filed for divorce, citing irreconcilable differences.
Pitt and Anistons divorce was finalized by the Los Angeles Superior Court on October 2, 2005.
Despite media reports that Pitt and Aniston had an acrimonious relationship, Pitt said in a February 2009 interview that he and Aniston "check in with each other", adding that they were both big parts of each others lives.
During Pitts divorce proceedings, his involvement with his Mr. &amp; Mrs. Smith (2005 film) Mr. &amp; Mrs. Smith co-star Angelina Jolie attracted media attention. Jolie stated that there was no infidelity,
and Pitt and Jolie stated that they "fell in love" on the set.
In April 2005, one month after Aniston filed for divorce, a set of paparazzi photographs emerged showing Pitt, Jolie and her son Maddox at a beach in Kenya; the press interpreted the pictures as evidence of a relationship between Pitt and Jolie. During 2005, the two were seen together with increasing frequency, and the entertainment media dubbed the couple "Brangelina".
On January 11, 2006, Jolie confirmed to People (American magazine) People that she was pregnant with Pitts child, thereby publicly acknowledging their relationship for the first time. Pitt and Jolie announced their engagement in April 2012 after seven years together.
They were married on August 23, 2014, in a private ceremony in Château Miraval, Correns-Var Château Miraval, France.
On September 19, 2016, Jolie filed for divorce from Pitt, citing irreconcilable differences.
===Children===
{{sidebar
 title = Children
 contentstyle = text-align:left
 content1 =
; Maddox Chivan Jolie-Pitt : born {{birth date and age 2001 8 5}} in Cambodia;
<br/>
adopted March 10, 2002 by Jolie;
<br/>
adopted early 2006 by Pitt
; Pax Thien Jolie-Pitt : born {{birth date and age 2003 11 29}} in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam;
<br/>
adopted March 15, 2007 by Jolie;
<br/>
adopted February 21, 2008 by Pitt
; Zahara Marley Jolie-Pitt : born {{birth date and age 2005 1 8}} in Awassa, Ethiopia;
<br/>
adopted July 6, 2005 by Jolie;
<br/>
adopted early 2006 by Pitt
; Shiloh Nouvel Jolie-Pitt : born {{birth date and age 2006 5 27}} in Swakopmund, Namibia
; Knox Léon Jolie-Pitt and Vivienne Marcheline Jolie-Pitt (twins) : born {{birth date and age 2008 7 12}} in Nice, France
}}
In July 2005, Pitt accompanied Jolie to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, where she adopted her second child, Zahara Marley.
On December 3, 2005, Pitt was in the process of becoming the adoptive father of Zahara, and Jolies first adopted child, Maddox Chivan.
On January 19, 2006, a California judge granted Jolies request to change the childrens surnames from "Jolie" to "Jolie-Pitt".
The adoptions were finalized soon after.
Jolie gave birth to daughter Shiloh Nouvel in Swakopmund, Namibia, on May 27, 2006. Pitt confirmed that their newborn daughter would qualify for a Namibian passport.
The couple sold the first pictures of Shiloh through the distributor Getty Images; the North American rights were purchased by People for over $4.1 million, while Hello! obtained the British rights for approximately $3.5 million. The proceeds from the sale were donated to charities serving African children.
Madame Tussauds in New York unveiled a wax figure of two-month-old Shiloh; it marked the first time an infant was recreated in wax by Madame Tussauds.
On March 15, 2007, Jolie adopted three-year-old Pax Thien from an orphanage in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
Pitt adopted Pax in the United States on February 21, 2008.
At the 2008 Cannes Film Festival Cannes Film Festival in May 2008, Jolie confirmed that she was expecting twins.
She gave birth to son Knox Léon and daughter Vivienne Marcheline on July 12,
<!--- Article says "on Saturday" and was posted on July 15, 2008. According to a July 2008 calendar, the Saturday preceding it would be July 12, so it stands to reason that they were born on July 12 --->
2008 in Nice, France.
The rights for the first images of Knox and Vivienne were jointly sold to People and Hello! for $14 million—List of most expensive celebrity photographs the most expensive celebrity pictures ever taken.
The couple donated the proceeds to the Jolie-Pitt Foundation.
==In the media==
File:BradPitt.jpg thumb alt=A male with dyed blonde hair is being interviewed. He is wearing a black suit and tie, with a white shirt, and is standing on a red carpet. People standing behind barricades are visible in the background, while microphones are visible in the foreground. Pitt interviewed by the news media at the Palm Springs International Film Festival in 2007

Pitts perceived sex appeal has been picked up by many sources, including Empire (magazine) Empire, who named him one of the 25 sexiest stars in film history in 1995.
The same year, Pitt won People (American magazine) People
s Sexiest Man Alive, an accolade he won again in 2000.
Pitt appeared on Forbes
s annual Celebrity 100 list of the 100 most powerful celebrities in 2006, 2007, and 2008, at No. 20, No. 5, and No. 10 respectively.
In 2007, he was listed among the Time 100, a compilation of the 100 most influential people in the world, as selected annually by TIME.
The magazine credited Pitt with using "his star power to get people to look [to where] cameras dont usually catch".
Pitt was again included in the Time 100 in 2009, this time in the Builders and Titans list.
Starting in 2005, Pitts relationship with Angelina Jolie became one of the most reported celebrity stories worldwide. After confirming that Jolie was pregnant in early 2006, the significant media hype surrounding the couple reached what Reuters, in a story titled "The Brangelina fever," called "the point of insanity".
To avoid media attention, the couple flew to Namibia for the birth of their daughter Shiloh, which was described by a paparazzi blog as "the most anticipated baby since Jesus Christ."
Similarly, intense media interest greeted the announcement two years later of Jolies second pregnancy; for the two weeks Jolie spent in a seaside hospital in Nice, reporters and photographers camped outside on the promenade to report on the birth.
In a 2006 global industry survey by ACNielsen in 42 international markets, Pitt, together with Jolie, was found to be the favorite celebrity endorser for brands and products worldwide.
Pitt has appeared in several television commercials. For the U.S. market, he starred in a Heineken Pilsener Heineken commercial aired during the Super Bowl XXXIX 2005 Super Bowl; it was directed by David Fincher, who had directed Pitt in Seven (1995 film) Seven, Fight Club (film) Fight Club, and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (film) The Curious Case of Benjamin Button.
Other commercial appearances came in television spots including Honda Integra Acura Integra, in which he was featured opposite Russian model Tatiana Sorokko,
as well as SoftBank, and Edwin (clothing brand) Edwin Jeans.
On June 2, 2015, the minor planet 29132 Bradpitt was named in his honor.
==Filmography ==
{{Main Brad Pitt filmography}}
Selected notable roles:
{{Div col colwidth=22em}}
* Thelma &amp; Louise (1991) as J.D.
* A River Runs Through It (film) A River Runs Through It (1992) as Paul Maclean
* Kalifornia (1993) as Early Grayce
* True Romance (1993) as Floyd
* Interview with the Vampire (film) Interview with the Vampire (1994) as Louis de Pointe du Lac
* Legends of the Fall (1994) as Tristan Ludlow
* Seven (1995 film) Seven (1995) as David Mills
* 12 Monkeys (1995) as Jeffrey Goines
* Sleepers (film) Sleepers (1996) as Michael Sullivan
* Seven Years in Tibet (1997 film) Seven Years in Tibet (1997) as Heinrich Harrer
* Meet Joe Black (1998) as Joe Black
* Fight Club (1999) as The Narrator (Fight Club) Tyler Durden
* Snatch (film) Snatch (2000) as Mickey ONeil
* The Mexican (2001) as Jerry Welbach
* Spy Game (2001) as Tom Bishop
* Oceans Eleven (2001) as List of Oceans characters#Rusty Ryan Rusty Ryan
* Troy (film) Troy (2004) as Achilles
* Oceans Twelve (2004) as Rusty Ryan
* Mr. &amp; Mrs. Smith (2005 film) Mr. &amp; Mrs. Smith (2005) as John Smith
* Babel (film) Babel (2006) as Richard
* The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford (2007) as Jesse James
* Oceans Thirteen (2007) as Rusty Ryan
* Burn After Reading (2008) as Chad Feldheimer
* The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (film) The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (2008) as Benjamin Button
* Inglourious Basterds (2009) as Lt. Aldo Raine
* Megamind (2010) as Metro Man (voice)
* The Tree of Life (film) The Tree of Life (2011) as OBrien
* Moneyball (film) Moneyball (2011) as Billy Beane
* Killing Them Softly (2012) as Jackie Cogan
* World War Z (film) World War Z (2013) as Gerry Lane
* 12 Years a Slave (film) 12 Years a Slave (2013) as Samuel Bass
* Fury (2014 film) Fury (2014) as Don "Wardaddy" Collier
* The Big Short (film) The Big Short (2015) as Ben Rickert
* Allied (film) Allied (2016) as Max Vatan
* War Machine (film) War Machine (2017) as General Glen McMahon
* Ad Astra (film) Ad Astra (2019) as Roy McBride (post-production)
* Once Upon a Time in Hollywood (2019) as Cliff Booth (filming)
{{div col end}}

==Awards and nominations==
{{main List of awards and nominations received by Brad Pitt}}

==See also==
{{Portal bar Biography California Film Television Comedy Missouri  Drama  Africa United States}}
