The Honourable Charles Stewart Rolls (27 August 1877 – 12 July 1910) was a Welsh motoring and aviation pioneer. Together with Henry Royce he co-founded the Rolls-Royce Limited Rolls-Royce car manufacturing firm. He was the first Briton to be killed in an aeronautical accident with a powered aircraft, when the tail of his Wright Model A Wright Flyer broke off during a flying display in the Southbourne, Dorset Southbourne district of Bournemouth. He was aged 32.

==Early life==
File:Charles Rolls driving medal at Monmouth Museum, Wales.JPG thumb right 150px Driving medals won by Rolls, at Monmouth Museum
Rolls was born in Berkeley Square, London, third son of the John Rolls, 1st Baron Llangattock 1st Baron Llangattock and Lady Llangattock. Despite his London birth, he retained a strong family connection with his ancestral home
of The Hendre, near Monmouth, Wales. After attending Mortimer Vicarage Preparatory school (UK) Preparatory School in Berkshire, he was educated at Eton College where his developing interest in engines earned him the nickname dirty Rolls.
In 1894 he attended a private Cram school crammer in Cambridge which helped him gain entry to Trinity College, Cambridge, where he studied mechanical and applied science. In 1896, at the age of 18, he travelled to Paris to buy his first car, a Peugeot Phaeton body Phaeton, and joined the French Automobile Club Automobile Club of France. His Peugeot is believed to have been the first car based in Cambridge, and one of the first three cars owned in Wales. An early motoring enthusiast, he joined the Self-Propelled Traffic Association, which campaigned against the restrictions imposed on motor vehicles by the Locomotive Act, and became a founder member of the Royal Automobile Club Automobile Club of Great Britain, with which the Association merged in 1897.
Rolls was a keen cyclist and spent time at Cambridge bicycle racing. In 1896, he won a Blue (university sport) Half Blue and the following year became captain of the Cambridge University Bicycle Club.
Rolls graduated from Cambridge in 1898 and began working on the steam yacht Santa Maria followed by a position at the London and North Western Railway in Crewe.
However, his talents lay more in salesmanship and motoring pioneering than practical engineering; in January 1903, with the help of £6,600 provided by his father, he started one of Britains first car dealerships,
C.S.Rolls &amp; Co. based in Fulham, to import and sell French Peugeot and Belgian Minerva (automobile) Minerva vehicles.
<!--Rolls was a tall man, standing at about 1.95 m (65"). no citation, unable to verify-->
==Partnership with Royce==
File:Panhard &amp; Levassor autocar, C S Rolls driver and George V.jpg thumb right 235px George V of the United Kingdom HRH The Duke of York, Lord and Lady Llangattock, Sir Charles Cust and the Hon. C.S. Rolls at The Hendre, 1900
{{Main Rolls-Royce Limited}}

Rolls was introduced to Henry Royce by a friend at the Royal Automobile Club, Henry Edmunds, who was also a director of Royce Ltd. Edmunds showed him Royces car and arranged the historic meeting between Rolls and Royce at the Midland Hotel (Manchester) Midland Hotel, Manchester, on 4 May 1904. In spite of his preference for three or four cylinder cars, Rolls was impressed with the two-cylinder Royce 10 and in a subsequent agreement of 23 December 1904 agreed to take all the cars Royce could make. These would be of two, three, four and six cylinders and would be badged as Rolls-Royces.

File:CharlesRolls.jpg thumb left 123px Bronze bust at Derby Industrial Museum
The first Rolls-Royce car, the Rolls-Royce 10 hp, was unveiled at the Paris Motor Show Paris Salon in December 1904, although in the early advertising it was the name of Rolls that was emphasised over that of Royce. In 1906 Rolls and Royce formalised their partnership by creating Rolls-Royce Limited, with Rolls appointed Technical managing director on a salary of £750 per annum plus 4% of the profits in excess of £10,000. Rolls provided the financial backing and business acumen to complement Royces technical expertise. In 1907 Rolls-Royce Limited bought out C.S. Rolls &amp; Co.

Rolls put much effort into publicising the quietness and smoothness of the Rolls-Royce, and at the end of 1906 travelled to the USA to promote the new cars. The company was winning awards for the quality and reliability of its cars by 1907. But by 1909 Rolls interest in the business was waning, and at the end of the year he resigned as Technical managing director and became a non-executive director.
File:The late C.S. Rolls and Hon. Mrs Assheton Harbord.jpg thumb C. S. Rolls in a balloon probably his Midget
==Pioneer aviator==
Rolls was also a pioneer aviator and initially, balloonist,
making over 170 balloon ascents. In 1903 he won the James Gordon Bennett Jr. Gordon Bennett Gold Medal for the longest single flight time.

By 1907 Rolls interest turned increasingly to flying and he tried to persuade Royce to design an aero engine. He became the second Englishman to go up in an aeroplane. Piloted by  Wilbur Wright their flight on 8 October 1908 from Camp dAuvours, eleven kilometres east of Le Mans, lasted four minutes and twenty seconds.
He bought one of six Wright Model A Wright Flyer aircraft built by Short Brothers under licence from the Wright Brothers and from early October 1909
made more than 200 flights. Founder in 1901 with Frank Hedges Butler of the ballooning club that became the Royal Aero Club
in March 1910 he was the second person they licensed to fly an aeroplane.
He became the first man to make a non-stop double crossing of the English Channel by plane taking 95 minutes on 2 June 1910.
For this feat, which included the first East-bound aerial crossing of the English Channel, he was awarded the Gold Medal of the Royal Aero Club.
There is a Statue of Charles Rolls, Monmouth statue in Monmouth to commemorate the flight and another in Dover.

==Death==
File:Death of Charles Stewart Rolls - Illustrated London News 2.jpg thumb right Photograph on the front page of the Illustrated London News, 16 July 1910, showing the wreckage of the plane crash which killed Rolls
On 12 July 1910, at the age of 32, Rolls was killed in an air crash at Hengistbury Airfield,
Southbourne, Bournemouth when the tail of his Wright Model A Wright Flyer broke off during a flying display. He was the first Briton to be killed in an aeronautical accident with a powered aircraft, and the eleventh person internationally. His was also the first powered aviation fatality in the United Kingdom.
