Charles Eugène Jules Marie Nungesser (15 March 1892 – presumably on or after 8 May 1927) was a French Flying ace ace pilot and adventurer, best remembered as a rival of Charles Lindbergh. Nungesser was a renowned Flying ace ace in France, ranking third highest in the country with 43 air combat victories during World War I.

After the war, Nungesser mysteriously disappeared on an attempt to make the first non-stop transatlantic flight from Paris to New York, flying with wartime comrade François Coli in LOiseau Blanc (The White Bird). Their aircraft took off from Paris on 8 May 1927, was sighted once more over Ireland, and then was never seen again. The disappearance of Nungesser is considered one of the great mysteries in the history of aviation, and modern speculation is that the aircraft was either lost over the Atlantic or crashed in Newfoundland (island) Newfoundland or Maine.
Two weeks after Nungesser and Colis attempt, Charles Lindbergh successfully made the journey, flying solo from New York to Paris in Spirit of St. Louis. Monuments and museums honoring Nungesser and Colis attempt exist at Le Bourget airport in Paris and on the cliffs of Étretat, the location from which their plane was last sighted in France.

==Early life==
Charles Nungesser was born on 15 March 1892 in Paris and, as a child, was very interested in competitive sports. After attending the École des Arts et Métiers, where he was a mediocre student who nonetheless excelled in sports such as boxing, he went to South America{{snd}}first to Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, to search for an uncle who could not be located and then to Buenos Aires, Argentina, where he worked as an auto mechanic before becoming a professional racer. His interest in racing soon led him to flying airplanes; Nungesser learned to fly by using a Blériot Aéronautique Blériot plane owned by a friend.
After he eventually found his missing uncle, he worked on his sugar plantation in the Buenos Aires province.
==World War I exploits==

===Enlisting in the cavalry===
When World War I broke out, Nungesser returned to France where he enlisted with the 2e Régiment de Hussards. During one patrol, he and several soldiers commandeered a German Mors (automobile) Mors patrol car after killing its occupants. This impressed his superiors and he was subsequently awarded the Médaille militaire and granted his request to be transferred to the Service Aéronautique.
===Serving in the Service Aéronautique===
File:Charles Nungesser.jpg thumb right 200px Charles Nungesser wearing his numerous military decorations. As a military pilot, he was transferred to Escadrille VB106. While there, in July 1915, he shot down his first plane, a German Albatros Flugzeugwerke Albatros, and was awarded the Croix de guerre 1914–1918 (France) Croix de guerre. This action initiated the Nungesser legend. On 31 July 1915, Nungesser and his mechanic Roger Pochon were on standby duty. The two took off in a Voisin 3LAS despite Nungessers assignment to non-flying duties. In an encounter with five Albatros two-seaters, the French duo shot one down near :Nancy, France. Returning to their airfield, Nungesser was placed under house arrest for eight days for his insubordination. He was then decorated and forwarded to training in Nieuport fighters.
By the time Nungesser left VB106, he had flown 53 bombing missions. He had also emblazoned at least one of the Escadrilles planes with his elaborate gruesome personal insignia: the freebooters skull and crossbones and a coffin with two candles.
In November 1915, after retraining, he was transferred to Escadrille N.65 (the 65th Squadron) and was later attached to the famous Lafayette Escadrille, composed of American volunteers. While visiting the Escadrille on one of his convalescent periods recuperating from his wounds, he borrowed a plane and shot down another German while he was there. By the end of 1916, he had claimed 21 air kills.

===Undisciplined at times===
Despite being a decorated pilot, Nungesser was placed under house arrest on more than one occasion for flying without permission. He disliked strict military discipline and went to Paris to enjoy its many pleasures (such as alcohol and women) as often as possible. He was a leading fighter pilot whose combat exploits against the Germans were widely publicized in France. Nungessers rugged good looks, flamboyant personality, and appetite for danger, beautiful women, wine, and fast cars made him the embodiment of the stereotypical flying ace. He would sometimes arrive for morning patrol still dressed in the tuxedo hed worn the night before and even occasionally with a female companion. In contrast to the unsociable but nonetheless top French ace René Fonck, Nungesser was well liked by his comrades.
He suffered a very bad crash on 6 February 1916 that broke both his legs and he was to be injured again many times.
He was often so hobbled by wounds and injuries that he had to be helped into his cockpit.

===Victories as a flying ace===
Notwithstanding these early setbacks, Nungesser became an ace in April 1916. He was wounded on 19 May 1916 but continued to score and would be wounded again in June. Nevertheless, he finished the year with 21 victories.
It was during this time he downed two German aces, Hans Schilling (aviator) Hans Schilling, on 4 December, and Kurt Haber on the 20th.
File:Ni-17 Nungesser.jpg thumb The Nieuport Ni 17 The Knight of Death flown by C. Nungesser

His silver Nieuport 17 plane was decorated with a black heart-shaped field, a macabre Jolly Roger, and a coffin and candles painted inside.
He had adopted the title "The Knight of Death", paraphrasing the French word mort ("death"), a play on words for the German Mors vehicle like the one he captured as a cavalryman.

In early 1917, Nungesser had to return to hospital for treatment of injuries but managed to avoid being grounded.
He had pushed his score to 30 by 17 August 1917, when he downed his second Gothaer Waggonfabrik Gotha bomber.
Injuries from a car crash in December got him a months respite as an instructor before he returned to flying combat with Escadrille 65. He still flew a Nieuport, even though the squadron had re-equipped with Société Pour LAviation et ses Dérivés Spads. By May 1918, he had 35 victories, including a shared victory each with Jacques Gerard (aviator) Jacques Gérard and Eugène Camplan, and was raised to Officer of the Légion dhonneur.
By August 1918, he finally made a radical upgrade to the most recent Spad, the Spad XIII, and began to win again. On 14 August, he shot down four observation balloons for wins 39 through 42. The following day, he shared a win with Marcel Henriot and another pilot and finished the war with 43 official victories,
the third highest number among French fliers behind René Fonck and Georges Guynemer.
In his flying career, Nungesser received dozens of military decorations from France, Belgium, Montenegro, United States of America, Portugal, Russia, and Serbia.

===Wounds and injuries===
By the end of the war, a succinct summary of Nungessers wounds and injuries read: "Skull fracture, brain concussion, internal injuries (multiple), five fractures of the upper jaw, two fractures of lower jaw, piece of anti-aircraft shrapnel imbedded [sic] in right arm, dislocation of knees (left and right), re-dislocation of left knee, bullet wound in mouth, bullet wound in ear, atrophy of tendons in left leg, atrophy of muscles in calf, dislocated clavicle, dislocated wrist, dislocated right ankle, loss of teeth, contusions too numerous to mention."
==Post-World War I activities and disappearance==

===Work in the film industry===
After the conclusion of World War I in November 1918, Nungesser tried to organize a private flying school but failed to attract enough students. As the post-World War I economic recession had left many World War I aces without a job, he decided to take his chances with cinema in the United States, where the days of heroic flying was a very popular theme. It was when Nungesser was in the U.S. doing the film The Dawn Patrol (1930 film) The Dawn Patrol that he became interested in the idea of making a transatlantic flight and told his friends his next trip to America would be by air.{{citation needed date=September 2010}}
Image:Charles Nungesser et sa fiancée - Morane, 1923.jpg thumb right Nungesser and fiancée, 1923

In 1923, Nungesser became engaged to Consuelo Hatmaker.;
they married
<!--28th July,-->
in 1923 and separated in 1926.

===Attempt at aircraft sales===
In late 1923, Nungesser headed up an ill-starred voyage to Havana. Having been invited by the secretary to the President, José Manuel Cortina, when the latter was vacationing in Paris, Nungesser seemed to have assumed he had received an official tender from the Cuban government. At any rate, Nungesser brought four World War I Société Pour LAviation et ses Dérivés SPADs with him, as well as two fellow veterans. Nungesser based the SPADs with the Cuban Air Corps at Campo Colombia. He then proposed that the Cubans buy forty or more airplanes from him. When the Cuban Army pleaded lack of budget, Nungesser so aggressively importuned the Cuban Congress that the Cuban army Chief of Staff, General Alberto Herrera y Franchi, threatened to throw Nungessers party out of the country. On 10 February 1924, the French ace ended his Cuban sojourn with a fundraising flying exhibition, proceeds going to charity.
===Nungesser disappears===
{{Main article The White Bird}}
File:Carte postale-Oiseau blanc-1927.jpg thumb right Postcard of "The White Bird" with Nungesser and Coli
François Coli, a navigator already known for making historic flights across the Mediterranean, had been planning a transatlantic flight since 1923, with his wartime comrade Paul Tarascon, another World War I ace. When Tarascon had to drop out because of an injury from a crash, Nungesser came in as a replacement. Nungesser and Coli took off from Le Bourget airport near Paris on 8 May 1927, heading for New York in their LOiseau Blanc (The White Bird) aircraft, a Levasseur PL.8 biplane painted with Nungessers old World War I insignia. Their plane was last sighted heading past Ireland and, when they never arrived, the assumption was that their plane had crashed in the North Atlantic Ocean. Two weeks later, American aviator Charles Lindbergh successfully crossed from New York to Paris and was given an immense heros welcome by the French, even as they mourned for the losses of Nungesser and Coli.

Over the years, there have been various investigations to try to determine what happened to Nungesser and Coli. Most believe that the plane came down in the Atlantic due to a rain squall, but the aircraft has never been recovered. The leading alternate theory is that the aircraft may have crashed in Maine.
