Chesley Burnett "Sully" Sullenberger III (born 1951)
<!--omit full birthdate for BLPs-->
is a retired American Pilot in command airline captain who, on January 15, 2009, landed US Airways Flight 1549 in the Hudson River off Manhattan after both engines were disabled by a bird strike; all 155 persons aboard survived. Sullenberger is a speaker on Aviation safety airline safety
and has helped develop new protocols for airline safety. He served as the co-chairman, along with First Officer Jeffrey Skiles, of the Experimental Aircraft Association EAAs Young Eagles youth introduction-to-aviation program from 2009 to 2013.
Sullenberger retired from US Airways after 30 years as a commercial pilot on March 3, 2010.
In May of the following year, Sullenberger was hired by CBS News as an Aviation and Safety Expert.
He is the co-author, with Jeffrey Zaslow, of the The New York Times Best Seller list New York Times bestseller Highest Duty: My Search for What Really Matters, a memoir of his life and of the events surrounding Flight 1549, published in 2009 by HarperCollins. His second book, Making a Difference: Stories of Vision and Courage from Americas Leaders, was published in May 2012. He was ranked second in Time (magazine) Time{{}}s "Time 100 Top 100 Most Influential Heroes and Icons of 2009", after Michelle Obama.
==Early life==
Chesley Sullenberger was born in Denison, Texas.
His father was a descendant of Swiss people Swiss-German immigrants named Sollenberger.
He has one sister, Mary. The street on which he grew up in Denison was named after his mothers family. According to his sister, Sullenberger built model planes and aircraft carriers during his childhood, and says he became interested in flying after seeing military jets from an Air Force base near his house.
He went to school in Denison, and was consistently on the 99th percentile in every academic category.
At the age of 12, his IQ was deemed Mensa International#Membership requirement high enough to join Mensa International.
