Christopher DOlier Reeve
(September 25, 1952 – October 10, 2004) was an American actor. He achieved stardom for his acting achievements. In particular, he is best known for his motion picture portrayal of the classic DC comic book superhero Superman, beginning with the acclaimed Superman (1978 film) Superman (1978), for which he won a BAFTA Award.

Reeve appeared in other critically acclaimed films such as The Bostonians (film) The Bostonians (1984), Street Smart (film) Street Smart (1987) and The Remains of the Day (film) The Remains of the Day (1993). He received a Screen Actors Guild Award and a Golden Globe Award nomination for his performance in the television remake of Rear Window (1998 film) Rear Window (1998).

On May 27, 1995, Reeve was left Tetraplegia quadriplegic after being thrown from a horse during an Equestrianism equestrian competition in Culpeper, Virginia. He used a wheelchair and needed a portable ventilator to breathe for the rest of his life. He lobbied on behalf of people with Spinal cord injury spinal cord injuries and for human embryonic stem cell research, founding the Christopher Reeve Foundation and co-founding the Reeve-Irvine Research Center.
==Early life and education==
Christopher Reeve was born on September 25, 1952, in New York City, the son of Barbara Pitney Lamb (b. 1929), a journalist, and F. D. Reeve Franklin DOlier Reeve (1928-2013), a teacher, novelist, poet, and scholar. Reeve was of almost entirely English people English ancestry, with many family lines that had been in America since the early 1600s.
His paternal grandfather, Colonel Richard Henry Reeve, had been the Chief executive officer CEO of Prudential Financial (when it was called Prudential Life Insurance Company) for over 25 years.

Reeves father was a Princeton University graduate studying for a masters degree in Russian language Russian at Columbia University prior to the birth of his son, Christopher. Despite being born wealthy, Franklin Reeve spent summers working at the docks with stevedore longshoremen. Reeves mother had been a student at Vassar College but transferred to Barnard College to be closer to Franklin, whom she had met through a family connection. They had another son, Benjamin, born on October 6, 1953.
Franklin and Barbara divorced in 1956, and she moved with her two sons to Princeton, New Jersey, where they attended Nassau Street School. Later that year, Franklin Reeve married Helen Schmidinger, a Columbia University graduate student. Barbara Pitney Lamb married Tristam B. Johnson, a stockbroker, in 1959. Johnson enrolled Christopher and his brother, Benjamin, in Princeton Country Day School, which later merged with Miss Fines School for Girls to become the co-educational Princeton Day School.
Reeve excelled academically, athletically, and onstage; he was on the Honors student honor roll and played soccer, baseball, tennis, and hockey. The sportsmanship award at Princeton Day Schools invitational hockey tournament was named in Reeves honor. Reeve admitted that he put pressure on himself to act older than he actually was in order to gain his fathers approval.
Reeve found his passion for acting in 1962 at age nine when he was cast in an amateur version of the operetta The Yeomen of the Guard; it was the first of many student plays.
In mid-1968, at age fifteen, Reeve was accepted as an apprentice at the Williamstown Theatre Festival in Williamstown, Massachusetts. The other apprentices were mostly college students, but Reeves older appearance and maturity helped him fit in with the others. In a workshop, he played a scene from A View from the Bridge that was chosen to be presented in front of an audience. After the performance, actress Olympia Dukakis said to him, "Im surprised. Youve got a lot of talent. Dont mess it up."
The next summer, Reeve was hired at the Harvard Summer Repertory Theater Company in Cambridge, Massachusetts Cambridge for $44 per week. He played a Russian sailor in The Hostage (play) The Hostage and Belyayev in A Month in the Country (play) A Month in the Country. Famed theater critic Elliot Norton called his performance as Belyayev "startlingly effective." The 23-year-old lead actress in the play, a Carnegie Mellon graduate, turned out to be Reeves first romance. She was engaged to a fellow Carnegie Mellon graduate at the time; they mutually ended the relationship when he made a surprise visit to her dorm room at seven in the morning and found Reeve with her. Reeves romance with the actress fizzled a few months later when the age difference became an issue.
Reeve was briefly involved with Scientology but opted out of becoming a member. He subsequently voiced criticism of the organization.
===Cornell===
After graduating from Princeton Day School in June 1970, Reeve acted in plays in Boothbay, Maine. He planned to go to New York City to find a career in theater. Ultimately, however, at the advice of his mother, he applied for college. He was accepted into Brown University Brown, Carnegie Mellon University Carnegie Mellon, Columbia University Columbia, Cornell University Cornell, Northwestern University Northwestern, and Princeton University Princeton. Reeve said that he chose Cornell primarily because it was distanced from New York City and because of the temptations of working as an actor immediately versus finishing college, as he had promised his mother and step-father.
Reeve joined the theater department in Cornell, and played Pozzo (Waiting for Godot) Pozzo in Waiting for Godot, Segismundo in Life is a Dream Life Is a Dream, Hamlet in Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead, and Polixenes in The Winters Tale.
Late in his freshman year, Reeve received a letter from Stark Hesseltine, a high-powered New York City agent who had discovered Robert Redford and who represented actors such as Richard Chamberlain, Michael Douglas, and Susan Sarandon. Hesseltine had seen Reeve in A Month in the Country and wanted to represent him. Reeve was very excited and kept re-reading the letter to make sure of what it said. Reeve was impatient with school and anxious to get on with his career. The two met, but Reeve was surprised to find that Hesseltine strongly supported his promise to his mother and step-father to complete college. They decided that instead of dropping out of school, Reeve would come to New York once a month to meet casting agents and producers to find work for the summer vacation.
Reeve received favorable responses to his introductions and auditions arranged by Hesseltine but had to forgo several desirable opportunities because they began before school ended. That summer, he toured in a production of Forty Carats with Eleanor Parker.
The next year, Reeve received a full summer contract with the San Diego Shakespeare Festival, with roles as Edward IV in Richard III (play) Richard III, Fenton in The Merry Wives of Windsor, and Dumaine in Loves Labours Lost at the Old Globe Theatre.
Before his third year of college, Reeve took a three-month leave of absence. He flew to Glasgow and saw theatrical productions throughout the United Kingdom. The actors inspired him, and he often had conversations with them in bars after the performances. He helped actors at the Old Vic with their American accents by reading the newspaper aloud for them. He then flew to Paris, where he spoke fluent French for his entire stay: he had studied it from third grade until his second year in Cornell. He watched many performances and immersed himself in the culture before finally returning to New York to reunite with his girlfriend.
===Juilliard===
After returning to the U.S. from Europe, Reeve chose to focus solely on acting, although Cornell University had several general education requirements for graduation that he had yet to complete. He managed to convince theater director Jim Clause and the Dean (education) dean of the College of Arts and Sciences that, as a theater major, he would achieve more at Juilliard School Juilliard (List of Juilliard School people Group 4, 1973–1975) than at Cornell. They agreed that his first year at Juilliard would be counted as his senior year at Cornell.
In 1973, approximately 2000 students auditioned for 20 places in the freshman class at Juilliard. Reeves audition was in front of 10 faculty members, including John Houseman, who had just won an Academy Award for The Paper Chase (film) The Paper Chase. Reeve and Robin Williams were the only students selected for Juilliards Advanced Program.
They had several classes together in which they were the only students. In their dialects class with Edith Skinner, Williams had no trouble mastering all dialects naturally, whereas Reeve was more meticulous about it. Williams and Reeve developed a close friendship.
In a meeting with John Houseman, Reeve was told, "Mr. Reeve. It is terribly important that you become a serious classical actor. Unless, of course, they offer you a shitload of money to do something else."
Houseman then offered him the chance to leave school and join the Acting Company, among performers such as Kevin Kline, Patti LuPone, and David Ogden Stiers. Reeve declined, as he had not yet received his bachelors degree from Juilliard.
In early 1974, Reeve and other Juilliard students toured the New York City junior high school system and performed The Love Cure. In one performance, Reeve, who played the hero, drew his sword out too high and accidentally destroyed a row of lights above him. The students applauded and cheered. Reeve later said that this was the greatest ovation of his career.
After completing his first year at Juilliard, Reeve graduated from Cornell in the Class of 74.

In late 1975, he auditioned for the Broadway theatre Broadway play A Matter of Gravity. Katharine Hepburn watched his audition and cast him as her characters grandson in the play. With Hepburns influence over the CBS network, Reeve worked out the schedules of the soap opera Love of Life and the play so that he would be able to do both. Because of his busy schedule, he ate candy bars and drank coffee in place of meals and hence suffered from exhaustion and malnutrition. On the first night of the plays run, Reeve entered the stage, said his first line, and then promptly fainted. Hepburn turned to the audience and said, "This boys a goddamn fool. He doesnt eat enough red meat." The understudy finished the play for Reeve, and a doctor treated him. The doctor advised Reeve to eat a more healthful diet. He stayed with the play throughout its year-long run and was given very favorable reviews. He and Hepburn became very close. She said, "Youre going to be a big star, Christopher, and support me in my old age." He replied, "I cant wait that long." Some gossip columns rumored a romance between the two. Reeve said, "She was sixty-seven and I was twenty-two, but I thought that was quite an honor...I believe I was fairly close to what a child or grandchild might have been to her." Reeve said that his father, who was a professor of literature and came to many of the performances, was the man who most captivated Hepburn. When the play moved to Los Angeles, California Los Angeles in 1976, Reeve — to Hepburns disappointment — dropped out. They stayed in touch for years after the plays run. Reeve later regretted not staying closer and just sending messages back and forth.
Reeves first role in a Hollywood film was a very small part as a junior submarine officer in the 1978 naval disaster movie Gray Lady Down. He then acted in the play My Life at the Circle Repertory Company with friend William Hurt.
==Career==
===Superman===
<!--File:Clarksupescompare.jpg thumb right Reeve as both Superman (left) and Clark Kent (right)-->
During My Life, Stark Hesseltine told Reeve that he had been asked to audition for the leading role as Clark Kent/Superman in the big budget film, Superman (1978 film) Superman (1978). Lynn Stalmaster, the casting director, put Reeves picture and résumé on the top of the pile three separate times, only to have the producers throw it out each time. Through Stalmasters persistent pleading, a meeting between director Richard Donner, producer Ilya Salkind, and Reeve was set in January 1977 at the Sherry Netherland Hotel on Fifth Avenue.
The morning after the meeting, Reeve was sent a 300-page script. He was thrilled that the script took the subject matter seriously, and that Richard Donners motto was verisimilitude. Reeve immediately flew to London for a screen test, and on the way was told that Marlon Brando was going to play Jor-El and Gene Hackman was going to play Lex Luthor. Reeve still did not think he had much of a chance. Though standing {{convert 6 ft 4 in cm abbr=on}}, he was a self-described "skinny White Anglo-Saxon Protestant WASP." On the plane ride to London, he imagined how his approach to the role would be. He later said, "By the late 1970s, the masculine image had changed... Now it was acceptable for a man to show gentleness and vulnerability. I felt that the new Superman ought to reflect that contemporary male image." He based his portrayal of Clark Kent on Cary Grant in his role in Bringing Up Baby. After the screen test, his driver said, "Im not supposed to tell you this, but youve got the part."
Reeve was a talented all-around athlete.
Portraying the role of Superman would be a stretch for the young actor, but he was tall enough for the role and had the necessary blue eyes and handsome features. However, his physique was slim. He refused to wear fake muscles under the suit and instead went through an intense two-month training regimen that former British weightlifting champion David Prowse supervised. Prowse played Darth Vader in the suit in the original Star Wars films. The training regimen consisted of running in the morning, followed by two hours of Weight training weightlifting and ninety minutes on the trampoline. In addition, Reeve doubled his food intake and adopted a high protein diet. He added {{convert 30 lb kg spell=in}} of muscle to his thin {{convert 189 lb kg}} frame. He later made even higher gains for Superman III (1983), though for Superman IV: The Quest for Peace (1987), he decided it would be healthier to focus more on cardiovascular workouts.
One of the reasons Reeve could not work out as much for Superman IV: The Quest for Peace was an emergency appendectomy he had in June 1986.
Reeve was never a Superman or comic book fan, though he had watched Adventures of Superman (TV series) Adventures of Superman starring George Reeves. Reeve found the role offered a suitable challenge because it was a dual role. He said, "there must be some difference stylistically between Clark and Superman. Otherwise, you just have a pair of glasses standing in for a character."
On the commentary track for the directors edition of Superman II: The Richard Donner Cut, creative consultant Tom Mankiewicz spoke of how Reeve had talked to him about playing Superman and then playing Clark Kent. Mankiewicz then corrected Reeve, telling him that he was always, always playing Superman and that when he was Clark Kent, he was "playing Superman who was playing Clark Kent." Mankiewicz described it to Reeve as a role within the role.

The film grossed $300,218,018 worldwide (unadjusted for inflation).
Reeve received positive reviews for his performance:
* "Christopher Reeves entire performance is a delight. Ridiculously good-looking, with a face as sharp and strong as an ax blade, his bumbling, fumbling Clark Kent and omnipotent Superman are simply two styles of gallantry and innocence." – Newsweek
* "Christopher Reeve has become an instant international star on the basis of his first major movie role, that of Clark Kent/Superman. Film reviewers — regardless of their opinion of the film — have been almost unanimous in their praise of Reeves dual portrayal. He is utterly convincing as he switches back and forth between personae." – Starlog
* Won a BAFTA Film Award for Most Promising Newcomer to Leading Film Roles.

Christopher Reeve also guest starred in Smallville, the successful American television show about Clark Kent/Supermans childhood. He appeared as Doctor Virgil Swann, who helped Clark Kent understand his heritage. Reeve appeared as Doctor Swann in Seasons 2 and 3, until the character was ultimately "killed off". He appeared in two episodes titled "Rosetta" and "Legacy", while his death was made known in the fourth-season episode "Sacred".

Reeve used his celebrity status for several philanthropic causes. Through the Make-A-Wish Foundation, he visited terminally ill children. He joined the Board of Directors for the worldwide charity Save the Children. In 1979, he served as a track and field coach at the Special Olympics alongside O. J. Simpson.
====Sequels====
Much of Superman II was filmed at the same time as the Superman (1978 film) first film. After most of the footage had been shot, the producers had a disagreement with director Richard Donner over various matters, including money and special effects, and they mutually parted ways. Film director Richard Lester, who had worked with the producers previously on the two-parter The Three Musketeers (1973) and The Four Musketeers (1974 film) The Four Musketeers (1974), replaced Donner. Lester had the script changed and re-shot some footage. The cast was unhappy, but Reeve later said that he liked Lester and considered Superman II to be his favorite of the series.
Because of fan encouragement and the June 2006 theatrical release of Superman Returns, Richard Donners version of Superman II titled Superman II: The Richard Donner Cut, was released on DVD in Nov. 2006, at the same time as the DVD release of Superman Returns. Superman II: The Richard Donner Cut was dedicated in memory of Reeve.

Lester directed Superman III, released in 1983, solo. Reeve believed that producers Alexander Salkind, his son Ilya Salkind, and Pierre Spengler decreased the credibility of Superman III by turning it into a Richard Pryor comedy and hence making it a not very good film. He missed Richard Donner and believed that Superman IIIs only really good element was the automobile wrecking yard junkyard scene in which Evil Superman fights Good Clark Kent in an internal battle.
