Charles Bishop Scarborough III (born November 4, 1943) is an American television journalist and author. Since 1974, he has been the lead news anchor at WNBC, the New York City flagship station of the NBC NBC Television Network, and has also appeared on NBC News. He currently anchors at 6pm on WNBC.
==Life and career==
A native of Pittsburgh and a graduate of the University of Southern Mississippi, Scarborough served in the United States Air Force
and currently has a commercial aviator pilot certificate. His career in television began in Mississippi as a reporter at WLOX-TV in Biloxi, Mississippi Biloxi and later WDAM-TV in Laurel, Mississippi Laurel, before moving to WAGA-TV in Atlanta.

Scarboroughs first major market anchoring job came in 1972, at WNAC-TV (defunct) WNAC-TV in Boston. He was originally hired as part of a two-man anchor team with respected New England journalist Lee Nelson, but was soon made the solo anchor of the stations news broadcasts. In addition to his anchor work, he was called on to host a weekly program called Mass Reaction, in which the public was invited to the studio to question news broadcasters and newsmakers.

In his final broadcast on WNAC-TV, Scarborough ended the newscast with a commentary in which he identified the issue of race as the most important challenge facing Boston. A scant few months later, Boston erupted into racial unrest as the result of a federal court order to end its policy of de facto racial segregation in the public schools. While WNAC had been the perennial trailer among Bostons three VHF television news broadcasts, with Scarborough as anchor the station managed to best its rivals in the 6pm newscast ratings.

Scarborough joined NBC News in March 1974 as sole anchor of WNBC-TVs then-new 5:00 PM newscast, NewsCenter 4 (later renamed News 4 New York).
Eventually, he became the stations lead anchor at 6pm and 11pm. In 2003, he became the unofficial "dean" of New York-area television news anchors when WABC-TV anchor Bill Beutel retired after 37 years. He surpassed Beutel as New Yorks most tenured English-language news anchor in 2011. Five years later, Scarborough succeeded Rafael Pineda (television journalist) Rafael Pineda of Spanish-language WXTV as the longest-serving anchor in New York television history. For much of his first 20 years with NBC, he occasionally appeared on the network as a correspondent and often anchored the networks prime-time news updates.

At WNBC, he has worked alongside Marv Albert, Len Berman, Jack Cafferty, Frank Field (meteorologist) Dr. Frank Field, John Hambrick, Pat Harper, Pia Lindstrom, Sue Simmons, Michele Marsh (reporter) Michele Marsh, Al Roker, and Tom Snyder, among others.

Scarborough was the host of the Television syndication syndicated programs Images – A Year in Review and Memories...Then and Now in the late 1980s-early 1990s, and also co-anchored the NBC network documentary series Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow with Maria Shriver and Mary Alice Williams.

The 11:00 pm broadcast on July 14, 2017, marked Scarboroughs last in that time slot after 42 years, as he cut back on his schedule to working only the 6pm. Taking his place at 11 will be Stefan Holt, the son of NBC Nightly News anchor Lester Holt.
== Awards ==
Scarborough has won 36 local Emmy Awards,
and was one of the first inductees into the New York State Broadcasters Association Hall of Fame in 2005. He was inducted alongside Sue Simmons, his co-anchoring partner from 1980 until Simmons retirement in June 2012. They were together longer than any other anchor team in New York City television history.

== Personal life ==
Scarborough is married to Ellen Ward Scarborough, and was previously married to Anne Ford and Linda Gross.
He has two children, Chad and Elizabeth. His daughter Elizabeth has followed in her fathers footsteps as a television journalist.
He and his family reside in Stamford, Connecticut.

He is not related to MSNBC anchor Joe Scarborough.  Coincidentally, Joe Scarboroughs real first name is also Charles.

== Pop culture ==
In the 1994 movie The Paper (film) The Paper, a flash of the nightly news shows Scarborough giving out a headline which is the focal point of the news report, the paper is reporting on. Also on How to Lose Friends &amp; Alienate People (film) How to Lose Friends and Alienate People, he was briefly shown on a billboard, likely promoting the WNBC news team. He appeared in The Adjustment Bureau, reporting a story for WNBC on the films protagonist, David Norris (Matt Damon), and in two episodes of the NBC sitcom Veronicas Closet.

Scarborough and Simmons are mentioned in the Fountains of Wayne song "Traffic &amp; Weather" from their 2007 album of the same title.
In episode 8, season 7 of the NBC comedy 30 Rock, the protagonist Liz Lemon jokes that Chuck Scarborough is anatomically a woman.

==Novels==
Scarborough has written three novels: 
* Stryker (novel) Stryker (1978), {{ISBN 0-02-606920-2}}.
* The Myrmidon Project (1980), {{ISBN 0-698-11054-4}}.
* Aftershock (novel) Aftershock (1991), {{ISBN 0-517-58014-4}}.

Aftershock was made into a made for television movie, Aftershock: Earthquake in New York in 1999, airing on the CBS television network.
