Bryan Keith "Dexter" Holland  (born December 29, 1965)
is an American musician, best known as the singer, rhythm guitarist, and primary songwriter for the punk rock band The Offspring.

==Education and scientific career==
Holland attended Pacifica High School (Garden Grove, California) Pacifica High School in Garden Grove, California, where he graduated as class valedictorian in 1984. During high school, Holland was the best student in mathematics in his year, and he found it "just as exciting as punk rock."
He then attended the University of Southern California, where he earned a Bachelor of Science B.S. degree in biology and an Master of Science M.S. degree in molecular biology, and commenced a Doctor of Philosophy Ph.D. in molecular biology.
However, after the success of The Offspring, he suspended his candidature to focus on music. Holland had said in 1995 that, when he turns 40, he would rather be a professor at a university than play music.
Holland was a doctoral student at the Laboratory of Viral Oncology and Proteomics Research, Keck School of Medicine, where he was supervised by Professor Suraiya Rasheed.
In March 2013, Holland and co-authors published a paper in PLoS One regarding microRNA in HIV genomes,
titled "Identification of Human MicroRNA-Like Sequences Embedded within the Protein-Encoding Genes of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus".
The original academic paper describes the use of Computational biology computational molecular biological (in silico) approaches to identify microRNA-like sequences in HIV. These sequences are suggested to have evolved to self-regulate survival of the virus in the host by evading its immune responses and thus influence the persistence, replication, and pathogenicity of HIV. Holland was awarded his Ph.D. degree in molecular biology during the USC Commencement on May 12, 2017.
==Musical career==
File:DexterPiano.jpg thumb right 250px Dexter Holland performing in 2009.
Hollands early influences include Aerosmith, The Beatles, the Sex Pistols, the Ramones, Kiss (band) KISS, Bob Marley, Queen (band) Queen, and The Rolling Stones.
After he met friend and cross-country teammate Greg Kriesel Greg K., they started a local punk band called Manic Subsidal in 1983, where he played the drums. It formed after the duo failed to get into a Social Distortion concert in 1984. After Jim Benton was hired as their drummer, Holland switched to both vocals and guitars. They never released any albums, but some demos have existed online.

After some line-up changes, Manic Subsidal changed their name to The Offspring in 1985. After recording a demo in 1988,
The Offspring signed a deal with a small-time label, Nemesis Records, for whom they recorded their first full-length album, The Offspring (album) The Offspring, in March 1989.
This album would eventually be re-issued on November 21, 1995 by Hollands own record label, Nitro Records.

In 1991, The Offspring signed with Epitaph Records (home of Bad Religion, L7 (band) L7, NOFX, Pennywise (band) Pennywise and other similar bands). Their first release on the label was Ignition (The Offspring album) Ignition, which was released in 1992. Their last album for that label was 1994s Smash (The Offspring album) Smash, which still holds the world record for most sales of an album on an independent label.
The band then signed with Columbia Records in 1996 (although Dexter claims that Brett Gurewitz, owner of Epitaph and guitarist for Bad Religion, sold the contract to Columbia
) for whom they released their next six albums, Ixnay on the Hombre (1997), Americana (The Offspring album) Americana (1998), Conspiracy of One (2000), Splinter (The Offspring album) Splinter (2003), Rise and Fall, Rage and Grace (2008), and their most recent, Days Go By (The Offspring album) Days Go By (2012).
Dexter Holland sometimes plays the piano during live shows. Occasionally the band plays "Gone Away (song) Gone Away", with only Dexter playing the song on piano. Holland sings in the tenor range.
==Business interests==
File:Gringobandito.jpg thumb Dexter Hollands "Gringo Bandito", his own brand of hot sauce with his picture on it.
Holland has his own brand of hot sauce named Gringo Bandito
and featuring Holland with bandoliers, revolvers, a sombrero and shades—as a possible homage to the logo for Tapatío hot sauce or Pancho Villa.
Gringo Bandito was launched in late 2006, after Holland, who grew up in Southern California where Mexican cuisine is considered a "part of the way of life", wondered "if [he] could do [a hot sauce] better".
On the conception of the hot sauce, Holland states that in the early 2000s, while eating Mexican food, he began to read the label of a bottle of Tapatío hot sauce Tapatío; "It just clicked that I had to make one," he says. "People who like hot sauce are a certain type of people. Theyre passionate. Theyll have a bottle with them wherever they go. Im one of those people. And when Im into something, I really get into it. Its like my music—I liked records, so I learned how to play a guitar. After that? A band".
In 2015, they hosted a Gringo Bandito Taco-eating challenge at Jason Acuña Weemans Chronic Tacos in Redondo Beach, California Redondo Beach featuring professional eater Takeru Kobayashi Kobayashi.

The headquarters for Gringo Bandito are located in a Huntington Beach industrial park, next to The Offsprings recording studio.
He is also the co founder of the record label Nitro Records which he operated from 1994 to 2013.

==Philanthropy==
In 1997, Holland and former Dead Kennedys singer Jello Biafra teamed up to form the F.S.U. Foundation, which raised funds through charity concerts. The foundation did benefit shows to raise money for various charities including AIDS Project Los Angeles, Poor Peoples United Fund, Trees Foundation, and Amnesty International.
Holland participated in the 2006 and 2008 Los Angeles Marathon; his charity of choice was the Innocence Project, a non-profit legal clinic that handles legal cases where post-conviction DNA profiling#DNA evidence as evidence in criminal trials DNA testing of evidence can yield conclusive proof of innocence.
==Personal life==
Holland was married to hairstylist Kristine Luna. She co-wrote the song "Session" from the Ignition (The Offspring album) Ignition album and also appears in the Offspring music video "I Choose." Holland and Luna met in 1992, married in 1995,
and divorced in 2012.
He married Amber Sasse in 2013.
Holland has a daughter, Alexa Holland, from a previous relationship. She goes by the stage name Lex Land and is a singer-songwriter.
He is of English and Dutch descent.

===Other interests===
Holland is also a licensed Airline Transport Pilot License Airline Transport Pilot and a Flight instructor Certified Flight Instructor
who made a solo trip around the world in ten days.

Holland is also an avid collector of Postage stamps and postal history of the Isle of Man stamps from The Isle of Man.
Other hobbies include surfing, as seen in the "Da Hui" music video.

==Musical equipment==
All of Hollands Ibanez RG body guitars are made out of mahogany and fitted with DiMarzio Super Distortion bridge pickups.
During their latest recordings, Holland used a vintage Gibson SG Junior.
He plays through a Mesa boogie Dual Rectifier.

==Discography==

===The Offspring===
Holland appears on all nine of The Offsprings studio albums. For a comprehensive list, see The Offspring discography.

===Guest appearances===
* The Vandals – Hitler Bad, Vandals Good (1998) (co-wrote "Too Much Drama")
* AFI (band) AFI – Black Sails in the Sunset (1999) (Backing vocals on "Clove Smoke Catharsis", "The Prayer Position" and "God Called in Sick")
* The Aquabats – The Aquabats vs. the Floating Eye of Death! (1999) (co-wrote "Amino Man!" and does backing vocals on that song)
* The Vandals – Look What I Almost Stepped In... (2000) (co-wrote "Jackass" and does backing vocals on that song)
* Dwarves (band) Dwarves – The Dwarves Must Die (2004) (Backing vocals on "Salt Lake City" and "Massacre")
* Puffy AmiYumi – Splurge (2006) (co-wrote Tokyo Im on My Way)
* Ron Emory – Walk That Walk (2010) (backing vocals on "Im Not Alone")
* Dwarves (band) Dwarves – The Dwarves Are Born Again (2011) (Backing vocals on "Looking Out for Number One" and "Happy Birthday Suicide")
* Dwarves (band) Dwarves – The Dwarves Invented Rock &amp; Roll (2014) (backing vocals)
* Dwarves (band) Dwarves - Take Back The Night (2018) (sings on "Julio")

Dexter also made a cameo appearances in:
*Idle Hands (film, 1999) as Band lead singer (with The Offspring)
*Pauly Shore Is Dead (film, 2003) as himself (uncredited)
*Punks Not Dead (2007 film) Punks Not Dead (documentary, 2007) as himself
*One Nine Nine Four (documentary, 2009) as himself
*The Damned: Dont You Wish That We Were Dead (documentary, 2015) as himself
