Dieter Friedrich Uchtdorf (born 6 November 1940) is a German aviator, airline executive and religious leader. He is a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles (LDS Church) Quorum of the Twelve Apostles of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church).  Called as an Apostle (LDS Church) apostle in 2004, he previously served as Second Counselor to Thomas S. Monson in the churchs First Presidency (LDS Church) First Presidency from 2008 until Monsons death on 2 January 2018.
Currently, Uchtdorf is the sixth most senior apostle in the ranks of the church.
==Early life and education==
Uchtdorf was born to ethnic Germans Karl Albert Uchtdorf and Hildegard Else Opelt in Ostrava Moravská Ostrava ({{lang-de Mährisch-Ostrau}}), which at the time was in the Nazi Germany Nazi-occupied Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia (now Ostrava, Czech Republic).
When he was a child, his family traveled through areas being bombed to move to Zwickau in eastern Germany while his father was away in the army.
As a result of his grandmothers encounter with an LDS Church member in a soup line, Uchtdorfs family joined the LDS Church when he was still young.
When Uchtdorf was about eleven, his fathers political beliefs, incongruent with Soviet rule, earned him the label of "dissenter", thus putting their lives in danger.
They fled East Germany and resettled in U.S.-occupied West Germany.  His sisters accomplished this by jumping from a moving train that happened to pass through West Germany, while Dieter and his mother climbed a mountain to avoid Russian guard checkpoints.

Uchtdorf started studying mechanical engineering at age 18 but later continued in business administration in Cologne and graduated from Institut pour lEtude des Methodes de Direction de lEntreprise (today the International Institute for Management Development) in Lausanne, Switzerland, with an MBA.
He received an honorary doctorate in international leadership from Brigham Young University during the April 2009 graduation ceremony.
==Aviator==
When Uchtdorf was conscripted into the newly formed Bundeswehr in 1959, he volunteered for the German Air Force air force, at age 19, to become a fighter pilot.
Due to an agreement between the West German and US governments, Uchtdorf trained as a fighter pilot in Big Spring, Texas,
where he excelled, earning the coveted Commanders Trophy (USAF) for being the best student pilot in his class.
