Don Cameron MBE BSc MA MIEE D.Eng  Royal Scottish Geographical Society FRSGS (born 1939) is a Scotland Scottish hot air balloon balloonist, and later founder of Cameron Balloons, the worlds largest hot air balloon manufacturer.

==Early life and career==

Born in Glasgow in 1939, Cameron went to Allan Glens School
and then went on to study aeronautical engineering at the University of Glasgow, graduating in 1961. In 1963 he obtained a masters degree at Cornell University Cornell, United States. He then joined the Bristol Aeroplane Company. Cameron developed Britains first modern hot air balloon entitled Bristol Belle which flew for the first time at Weston on the Green in Oxfordshire, England on 9 July 1967. In 1968 Cameron and Leslie Goldsmith founded Omega Balloons which constructed ten balloons, before the company split into Cameron Balloons and Western Balloons in 1970.

Cameron Balloons of Bristol, England, was formed by Cameron in 1971 - five years after he constructed his first balloon. The new company was based in Cotham, Bristol where a total of twenty nine balloons were made in the basement of the property. 1971 also saw Cameron build Golden Eagle, a balloon designed specifically to fly across the Sahara to shoot a film for Jack Le Vien.

In 1978 his attempt to make the premier Atlantic crossing by balloon ended when bad weather forced his heated helium balloon Zanussi down after a 2,000 mile flight from Canada. It was piloted by Cameron and Christopher Davey. They left St. Johns, Newfoundland and Labrador St. Johns, Newfoundland and Labrador on 26 July 1978, covered 1,780 miles, and ditched on 30 July 1978 in the Bay of Biscay only 110 miles from France after a tear developed in the balloon. The two planned a second attempt, but discarded their plans when the Double Eagle II successfully made a transatlantic flight three weeks later.

Never averse to technical challenges, Cameron went on to write computer programmes to design specially shaped balloons.

Cameron has received the gold, silver and bronze medals of the British Royal Aero Club for his ballooning achievements which include being the first man to cross the Sahara and the Alps by hot-air balloon, and making the first flight between the UK and the former USSR in 1990.

His dream came true in 1992 when he flew a balloon of his own design from Bangor, Maine, United States U.S. to Portugal and took second place in the first ever transatlantic balloon race.

In 1999, Breitling Orbiter 3, built by Cameron Balloons, made the first non-stop flight round the world.

Don Cameron is one of the few aeronauts to be awarded the Harmon Trophy, as the Worlds Outstanding Aviator in 1999
