Lieutenant Commander Edward Henry "Butch" OHare (March 13, 1914 – November 26, 1943) was an American naval aviator of the United States Navy, who on February 20, 1942, became the Navys first flying ace when he single-handedly attacked a formation of nine heavy bombers approaching his aircraft carrier. Even though he had a limited amount of ammunition, he managed to shoot down or damage several enemy bombers. On April 21, 1942, he became the first naval recipient of the Medal of Honor in World War II.

O’Hare’s final action took place on the night of November 26, 1943, while he was leading the U.S. Navy’s first-ever nighttime fighter attack launched from an aircraft carrier. During this encounter with a group of Japanese torpedo bombers, OHares Grumman F6F Hellcat was shot down; his aircraft was never found. In 1945, the U.S. Navy destroyer {{USS OHare DD-889}} was named in his honor.

A few years later, Colonel Robert R. McCormick, publisher of the Chicago Tribune, suggested that the name of Chicago Chicagos Orchard Depot Airport be changed as a tribute to Butch OHare. On September 19, 1949, the Chicago, Illinois airport was renamed OHare International Airport to honor OHares bravery. The airport displays a Grumman F4F-3
museum aircraft replicating the one flown by Butch OHare during his Medal of Honor flight. The Grumman F4F-3 Wildcat on display was recovered virtually intact from the bottom of Lake Michigan, where it sank after a training accident in 1943 when it went off the training aircraft carrier {{USS Wolverine IX-64}}. In 2001, the Air Classics Museum  remodeled the aircraft to replicate the F4F-3 Wildcat that OHare flew on his Medal of Honor flight.
The restored Wildcat is exhibited in the west end of Terminal 2 behind the security checkpoint to honor OHare International Airports namesake.

==Early life==
File:USS Saratoga (CV-3) underway, circa in 1942 (80-G-K-459).jpg thumb right The Aircraft Carrier USS Saratoga (CV-3).
File:Edward OHare as Annapolis cadet.jpg 100px thumb left OHare as 2/C Midshipman at the Naval Academy, 1935.
File:Ensign Edward OHare.jpg thumb 100px left Ensign (rank) Ensign OHare.
Edward Henry "Butch" OHare was born in St. Louis, Missouri, the son of Selma Anna (Lauth) and Edward J. OHare Edward Joseph OHare. He was of Irish and German descent. Butch had two sisters, Patricia and Marilyn. When their parents divorced in 1927, Butch and his sisters stayed with their mother Selma in St. Louis while their father Edward moved to Chicago. Butchs father was a lawyer who worked closely with Al Capone before turning against him and helping convict Capone of tax evasion.
Butch OHare graduated from the Western Military Academy in 1932. The following year, he went on to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland. Graduated and appointed an ensign (rank) Ensign on June 3, 1937, he served two years on board the battleship {{USS New Mexico BB-40}}. In 1939, he started flight training at Naval Air Station Pensacola NAS Pensacola in Florida, learning the basics on Naval Aircraft Factory N3N N3N-1 "Yellow Peril" and Boeing-Stearman Model 75 Stearman NS-1 biplane trainers, and later on the advanced T-6 Texan SNJ trainer. On the nimble Boeing F4B Boeing F4B-4A, he trained in aerobatics as well as aerial gunnery. He also flew the SBU Corsair and the TBD Devastator.
In November 1939, his father was shot to death, most likely by Al Capones gunmen. During Capones tax evasion trial in 1931 and 1932, OHares father had provided incriminating evidence which helped finally put Capone away. There is Edward J. OHare#Chicago speculation that this was done to ensure that Butch got into the Naval Academy, or to set a good example; it certainly at least partly involved an attempt to distance himself from Capones activities. Whatever the motivation, the elder OHare was shot down in his car, a week before Capone was released from incarceration.
<!-- Deleted image removed: File:F2A-1 VF-3 CV-3 Felix the Cat.jpg thumb right F2A-1 Buffalo from USS Saratoga (CV-3). -->
When Butch finished his naval aviation training on May 2, 1940,
he was assigned to {{USS Saratoga CV-3}} VF-6 Fighter Squadron Three (VF-3). OHare now trained on the Grumman F3F and then graduated to the Brewster F2A Buffalo. Lieutenant John Thach, then executive officer of VF-3, discovered OHares exceptional flying abilities and closely mentored the promising young pilot.
Thach, who would later develop the Thach Weave aerial combat tactic, emphasized gunnery in his training. In 1941, more than half of all VF-3 pilots, including OHare, earned the "E" for gunnery excellence.

In early 1941, VF-3 transferred to {{USS Enterprise CV-6}}, while carrier
{{USS Saratoga CV-3}} underwent maintenance and overhaul work at Bremerton Navy Yard.
File:Pilots of US Navy Fighting Squadron 3 (VF-3) on 5 March 1942.jpg thumb left VF-3: Front row, second from right: Lt. Edward Butch OHare.

On Monday morning, July 21, OHare made his first flight in a Grumman F4F Wildcat. Following stops in Washington and Dayton, he landed in St. Louis on Tuesday. Visiting the wife of a friend in hospital that afternoon, OHare met his future wife, nurse Rita Wooster, proposing to her the first time they met. After OHare took instruction in Roman Catholicism to Religious conversion convert, he and Rita married in St. Marys Catholic Church in Phoenix, Arizona Phoenix on Saturday, September 6, 1941. For their honeymoon, they sailed to Hawaii on separate ships, Butch on Saratoga, which had completed modifications at Bremerton, and Rita on the Matson Navigation Company Matson liner Lurline. Butch was called to duty the day after the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor.

On Sunday evening, January 11, 1942, as Butch and other VF-3 officers ate dinner in the wardroom, the carrier Saratoga was damaged by a Japanese torpedo hit while patrolling southwest of Hawaii. She spent five months in repair on the west coast, so VF-3 squadron transferred to the {{USS Lexington CV-2}} on January 31.

==World War II service==

===Medal of Honor flight===
File:Edward Ohare.jpg thumb right OHare stands beside a F4F-3 Wildcat (note leather cowboy belt instead of GI standard issue tan military web belt).
File:Grumman F4F-3 Wildcats of VF-3 in flight off Oahu on 10 April 1942 (80-G-10613).jpg thumb right F4F-3A Wildcats flown by LCMDR. Thach (F-1) and Lt. OHare (F-13) during the aerial photography flight of April 11, 1942.
File:Mitsubishi G4M Betty.jpg thumb Mitsubishi G4M Betty.
File:Mitsubishi G4M Betty splashed.jpg thumb right Photo (taken later in the war) of a shot down Mitsubishi G4M1 Betty, the same type of Japanese bomber, OHare encountered.
File:Butch and Thach.jpg thumb right Publicity footage of OHare and Thach at Kaneohe Naval Air Station, April 10, 1942. Note cuffs fitted to propeller blade roots of Grumman F4F-3 to increase airflow to the engine, avoiding engine cooling problems.

OHares most famous flight occurred during the Pacific War on February 20, 1942. LT OHare and his wingman were the only U.S. Navy fighters available in the air when a second wave of Japanese bombers were attacking his aircraft carrier Lexington.

Butch OHare was on board the aircraft carrier {{USS Lexington CV-2 6}}, which had been assigned the task of penetrating enemy-held waters north of New Ireland (island) New Ireland. While still 450 miles from the harbor at Rabaul, at 10:15, the Lexington picked up an unknown aircraft on radar 35 miles from the ship. A six-plane combat patrol was launched, two fighters being directed to investigate the contact. These two planes, under command of Lieutenant Commander John Thach shot down a four-engined Kawanishi H6K4 Type 97 ("Mavis") flying boat about 43 miles out at 11:12. Later two other planes of the combat patrol were sent to another radar contact 35 miles ahead, shooting down a second Mavis at 12:02. A third contact was made 80 miles out, but reversed course and disappeared. At 15:42 a jagged vee signal drew the attention of the Lexingtons radar operator. The contact then was lost, but reappeared at 16:25 forty-seven miles west and closing fast. Butch OHare, flying F4F Wildcat BuNo 4031 "White F-15", was one of several pilots launched to intercept the incoming 9 Japanese Mitsubishi G4M "Betty" bombers from 2nd Chutai of 4th Kōkūtai;
at this time five had already been shot down.

At 16:49, the Lexingtons radar picked up a second formation of Bettys from 1st Chutai of 4th Kōkūtai
only 12 miles out, on the
disengaged side of the task force, completely unopposed. The carrier had only two Wildcats left to confront the intruders: Butch and his wingman Marion William Dufilho "Duff" Dufilho. As the Lexington’s only protection, they raced eastward and arrived 1,500 feet above eight attacking Bettys nine miles out at 17:00. Dufilho’s guns were jammed and wouldn’t fire, leaving only OHare to protect the carrier. The enemy formation was a V of Vs flying very close together and using their rear-facing guns for mutual protection. OHares Wildcat, armed with four 50-caliber guns, with 450 rounds per gun, had enough ammunition for about 34 seconds of firing.

OHares initial maneuver was a high-side diving attack employing accurate deflection shooting. He accurately placed bursts of gunfire into a Bettys right engine
and wing fuel tanks; when the stricken craft of Nitō Hikō Heisō Tokiharu Baba (3rd Platoon Shotai)
on the right side of the formation abruptly lurched to starboard, he ducked to the other side of the V formation and aimed at the enemy bomber of Ittō Hikō Heisō Bin Mori (3rd Shotai)
on the extreme left. When he made his third and fourth firing passes, the Japanese planes were close enough to the American ships for them to fire their Anti-aircraft warfare anti-aircraft guns. The five survivors managed to drop their ordnance, but all ten List of Japanese World War II navy bombs 250kg bombs missed.
OHares hits were so concentrated, the nacelle of a Betty jumped out of its mountings, after OHare blew up the leading Shōsa Takuzo Itos Bettys port engine. OHare believed he had shot down five bombers, and damaged a sixth. Lieutenant Commander Thach arrived at the scene with other pilots of the flight, later reporting that at one point he saw three of the enemy bombers falling in flames at the same time.
In fact, OHare destroyed only three Bettys: Nitō Hikō Heisō Tokiharu Babas from 3rd Shotai, Ittō Hikō Heisō Susumu Uchiyamas (flying at left wing of the leading V, 1st Shotai) and the leader of the formation, Shōsa Takuzo Itos. This last (flying on the head of leading V) Bettys left engine was hit at the time it dropped its ordnance. Its pilot Hikō Heisōchō Chuzo Watanabe
tried to hit Lexington with his damaged plane. He missed and flew into the water near Lexington at 1712. Another two Bettys were damaged by OHares attacks. Ittō Hikō Heisō Kodji Maeda (2nd Shotai, left wing of V) safely landed at Vunakanau airdrome and Ittō Hikō Heisō Bin Mori was later shot down by LT Noel Gayler ("White F-1", VF-3) when trying to escape 40 miles from Lexington.
With his ammunition expended, OHare returned to his carrier, and was fired on accidentally but with no effect by a .50-caliber machine gun from the Lexington. OHares fighter had, in fact, been hit by only one bullet during his flight, the single bullet hole in F-15s port wing disabling the airspeed indicator. According to Thach, Butch then approached the gun platform to calmly say to the embarrassed anti-aircraft gunner who had fired at him, "Son, if you dont stop shooting at me when Ive got my wheels down, Im going to have to report you to the gunnery officer."
Thach calculated that OHare had used only sixty rounds of ammunition for each bomber he destroyed; an impressive feat of marksmanship. In the opinion of Admiral Brown and of Captain Frederick C. Sherman, commanding the Lexington, Lieutenant OHares actions may have saved the carrier from serious damage or even loss. By 19:00 all Lexington planes had been recovered except for two F4F-3 Wildcats shot down while attacking enemy bombers; both were lost while making steady, no-deflection runs from astern of their targets. The pilot of one fighter was rescued, the other went down with his aircraft.

The Lexington returned after the New Guinea raid to Pearl Harbor for repairs and to have her
obsolete 8-inch guns removed, transferring some of her F4F-3 fighter planes to the {{USS Yorktown CV-5}} including BuNox 4031 "White F-15" that OHare had flown during his famous mission. The pilot assigned to fly this aircraft to Yorktown was admonished by OHare just before take off to take good care of his plane. Moments later, the fighter unsuccessfully took off, rolling down the deck and into the water; the pilot was recovered, but "White F-15" was lost.

===Accolades===
File:Butch OHare March1942 PressConference with Thach at hawaiian hotel.jpg 100px thumb left LT Edward OHare at press conference with LCDR John Thach and reporters at the Royal Hawaiian Hotel on March 26, 1942.
On March 26, Butch was greeted at Pearl Harbor by a horde of reporters and radio announcers. During a radio broadcast in Honolulu, he enjoyed the opportunity to say hello to Rita ("Heres a great big radio hug, the best I can do under the circumstances") and to his mother ("Love from me to you").
On April 8, he thanked the Grumman Aircraft Corporation plant at Bethpage, New York Bethpage (where the F4F Wildcat was made) for 1,150 cartons of Lucky Strike cigarettes, a grand total of 230,000 smokes. Ecstatic Grumman workers had passed the hat to buy the cigarettes in appreciation of OHares combat victories in one of their F4F Wildcats. A loyal Camel (cigarette) Camel smoker, Butch opened a carton, deciding that it was the least he could do for the good people back in Bethpage. In his letter to the Grumman employees he wrote, "You build them, well fly them and between us, we cant be beaten." It was a sentiment he would voice often in the following two months.
By shooting down five bombers OHare became a flying ace, was selected for promotion to lieutenant commander, and became the first naval aviator to receive the Medal of Honor. With President Franklin D. Roosevelt looking on, OHares wife Rita placed the Medal around his neck. After receiving the Medal of Honor, then-Lieutenant OHare was described as "modest, inarticulate, humorous, terribly nice and more than a little embarrassed by the whole thing".
OHare received further decorations later in 1943
for actions in battles near Marcus Island in August and subsequent missions near Wake Island in October.

===Non-combat duty===
File:Butch M450.jpg thumb left Publicity shot of OHare, wearing tie and life vest, standing in the cockpit of a Grumman F4F-3 Wildcat (Media:Lt Edward H. Butch OHare, 1942.jpg different version of photo).
OHare was not employed on combat duty from early 1942 until late 1943. Important events in this period included flying an F4F-3A Wildcat (BuNo 3986 "White F-13") as Lieutenant Commander Jimmy Thachs wingman for publicity footage on April 11, 1942, the Medal of Honor presentation at the White House on April 21, and the welcome parade in OHares hometown on Saturday, April 25, 1942.

The welcome parade was held in St. Louis, Missouri St. Louis. At the starting point, OHare, wearing the impressive blue-ribboned Medal of Honor around his neck, was guided to the back seat of a black open Packard Phaeton, where he sat between his wife Rita and his mother Selma. The parade began at noon, led by a police motorcycle escort, then came the band from Jefferson Barracks, marching veterans, a truck packed with photographers, OHares Phaeton (with a six-man Marine honor guard alongside) and other open cars. Bringing up the rear was the entire 350-member student body of Western Military Academy. St. Louis Mayor William Dee Becker presented OHare with a gold navigators four-dial watch engraved with the words "To Lt. Commander Edward H. OHare, USN, from a proud and grateful City of St. Louis, April 25, 1942".
As Butch OHares mother and his sisters clipped newspaper stories and photos the following days, his place in history began to dawn on them. A newspaper headline read, "60,000 give OHare a heros welcome here." The United States in 1942 badly needed a live hero, and Butch OHare was a young, handsome naval aviator, so he participated in several war bond tours the following months.

On June 19, 1942 OHare assumed command of VF-3, relieving Lieutenant Commander Thach.
He was relocated to Maui, Hawaii, to instruct other pilots in combat tactics. U.S. Navy policy was to use its best combat pilots to train newer pilots, in contrast to the Japanese practice of keeping their best pilots flying combat missions. Ensign Edward L. Feightner Edward L. "Whitey" Feightner, who served with OHare in July 1942, later said
that one of the best pieces of information OHare passed on to him, was:
{{quote If you ever jump one of these Zeros and you surprise him, remember, the first thing hes going to do is a loop. Dont follow him into it! By the time you go into it a second time, hell be behind you. The first thing you should do when he starts up the loop is make a hard right turn and keep turning. Youll come right around, and when he bottoms out of the loop, youll be right on his tail!" OHare also related "First of all, remember, in todays world, whenever you take off and engage the enemy, youre going to be outnumbered. If you want to survive this War, you have to look behind you every chance you get. Even when you pull the trigger, be sure to look behind because theres gonna be someone back there.}}

An anecdote about OHare, serving as an instructor on Hawaii mid-1942:
{{quote [OHare] was a great swimmer and spear fisherman, and he insisted that the squadron swim with him. Swimming with Butch OHare meant that at eight oclock in the morning, you swam out into the ocean off Maui; he would still be out there at three in the afternoon! If he got hungry, Butch would roll over and dive, and the next thing you knew, he would come up with a fish of some sort. Then hed just roll over and lie on his back like an otter and eat the thing raw! He really impressed us with that! One day, he came back to the surface with an octopus draped over his arm. He said, Now, you have to learn how to kill these things, boys: you bite em right behind the eye. And with that, he chomped down! The octopus has some sort of spinal cord there, and biting it there does kill it! Then we had to go back to the beach where Butch would put these things in a frying pan with a little oil and some salt and stir them around. He enjoyed them, but they tasted like old rubber tires to me!}}
File:Felix-Three-big.jpg thumb right LT OHares F4F-3 Wildcat carrying the "Felix the Cat" insignia (1942).
File:Beyond Darkness June 20 1944.jpg thumb left LTJG Alexander Vraciu in his Grumman F6F after the "Mission Beyond Darkness" during the Battle of the Philippine Sea (June 20, 1944).
File:Hersch Pahl F6F3 VF6 1943.jpg thumb right ENS H. Pahl in a F6F-3 Hellcat of VF-6 under command of OHare (1943).
On March 2, 1943, Butch met Rita and hugged his one-month-old daughter, Kathleen, for the first time. His family resided in Coronado, California Coronado at 549 Orange Avenue, near North Island NAS. At the end of March 1943, OHare made Ensign Alexander Vraciu, a young Naval Reservist just out of flight school, his wingman. On July 15, 1943, VF-3 swapped designations with VF-6 squadron.

===Return to combat===
{{Refimprove section date=February 2011}}
Equipped with the highly successful follow-on to the Wildcat, the new Grumman F6F Hellcat Grumman F6F-3 Hellcat, two-thirds of VF-6 (twenty-four F6F-3s) under Butch OHares command embarked on August 22, 1943 on the light carrier {{USS Independence CVL-22}}.
The arrival of the F6Fs with their powerful Pratt &amp; Whitney R-2800 radial engines in late 1943 combined with the deployment of the new Essex class aircraft carrier Essex class carriers and the Independence class aircraft carrier Independence class carriers immediately gave the U.S. Pacific Fleet air supremacy wherever the Fast Carrier Force operated. The Hellcats first combat mission occurred on August 31, 1943, in a strike against Marcus Island. The F6F did well against Japanese fighters, and proved that with the right tactics and teamwork the Japanese Zero need not be considered a superior enemy. VF-6s combat debut on the Independence also went reasonably well. For his actions in battles near Marcus Island on August 31, 1943, OHare was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross (USA) Distinguished Flying Cross.
For his actions in subsequent missions near Wake Island on October 5, 1943, OHare was awarded a Gold Star in lieu of a second Distinguished Flying Cross.
File:Hellcats F6F-3, May 1943.jpg thumb left A two-plane section of F6F-3 Hellcats in tri-color camouflage scheme, wearing the red-outlined national insignia (January 21, 1943).
File:Butch leading Crew Chief Williams.jpg thumb right OHare and leading crew chief Williams "Chief Willy" beside a F6F-3 Hellcat talk things over at Wake, October 5, 1943.
File:Butch OHare F6F-3.jpg thumb right OHare as Air Group Six Commander in the cockpit of a Grumman F6F-3 (1943).
On October 10, 1943, OHare flew with VF-6
again in the air strikes against Wake Island. On this mission Lt.(jg) Alex Vraciu, the future ace, was his wingman – both Butch and Vraciu scored that day. When they came across an enemy formation Butch took the outside airplane and Vraciu took the inside plane. Butch went below the clouds to get a Japanese Mitsubishi Zero Mitsubishi Zero and Vraciu lost him, so Vraciu kept an eye on a second Zero that went to Wake Island and landed. Vraciu strafing strafed the Zero on the ground, then saw a Betty bomber and shot it down. Upon returning to the carrier, OHare asked Vraciu where he went and Vraciu knew then that he should have definitely stayed with his leader. Alex Vraciu later told
after the war, "OHare taught many of the squadron members little things that would later save their lives. One example was to swivel your neck before starting a strafing run to make sure enemy fighters were not on your tail." Vraciu also learned from OHare the "highside pass" used for attacking the Japanese Mitsubishi G4M Betty bombers. The highside technique was used to avoid the lethal 20-mm fire of the Bettys tail gunner. The Wake Island raid would be the last occasion Butch would lead VF-6 in battle. According to orders dated September 17, 1943, October found Butch OHare as Commander, Air Group Commander Air Group (CAG) commanding Air Group Six, embarked on the famous {{USS Enterprise CV-6}}. Functioning as CAG, OHare was given command of the entire Enterprise air group: Grumman F6F Hellcat fighters, Douglas SBD Dauntless dive bombers, Grumman TBF Avenger torpedo bombers and 100 pilots.

Now overseeing three squadrons, OHare still insisted that everyone call him "Butch." OHares VF-6 squadron would "still stay broken up" among three light aircraft carriers, the squadron had made itself just too useful filling out the light carrier air groups, and AirPac had no well-trained replacements on hand. As a result, Fighting Squadron Two (VF-2) boarded the USS Enterprise from November 1943 and became Butchs new Fighting Squadron. While he readied his new air group, he suffered what he intended as only a temporary separation from his beloved VF-6 "Felix the Cat" Squadron. The news, that the CO had to leave them, hit also the men of VF-6 hard. OHare first flew a TBM-1 Avenger as CAG-6 command aircraft with bombardier Del Delchamps, AOM1/c and radioman Hal Coleman as crew members. With its good radio facilities, docile handling, and long range, the Grumman Avenger made an ideal command aircraft for Air Group Commanders (CAGs), but Butch considered the Grumman torpedo bomber as a lame turkey compared to the Grumman F6F Hellcat fighter.

Later Arthur W. Radford Rear Admiral Radford honored a request from OHare to take a fighter as command aircraft instead of the Avenger, so OHare in a fateful decision happily drew Grumman F6F-3 Hellcat Bureau Number 66168 from the fleet pool to become his principal CAG plane, numbered "00".
From 20 – November 23, 1943, the U.S. forces landed in the Gilberts (Battle of Tarawa Tarawa and Battle of Makin Makin), and the Enterprise joined in providing close air support to the Marines landing on Makin Island. Equipped with the Grumman F6F Hellcat, the U.S. Navy fighter pilots could protect the fleet from attacking Japanese aircraft.

===Final mission and death===
File:TBM Avengers warming up aboard USS Enterprise (CV-6), May 1944.jpg thumb right Avengers warming up on CV-6 Enterprise.
File:F6F 1944 Jan.jpg thumb Grumman F6F-3 Hellcats preparing for take-off.Faced with U.S. daylight air superiority, the Japanese quickly developed tactics to send
torpedo-armed Mitsubishi G4M Betty bombers on night missions from their bases in the Marianas against the U.S. aircraft carriers. In late November they launched these low-altitude strikes almost nightly to get at Enterprise and other American ships, so Rear Admiral Arthur W. Radford, OHare and Commander Tom Hamilton (coach) Tom Hamilton, CV-6 Air Officer, were deeply involved in developing ad hoc counter-tactics, the first carrier-based night fighter operations of the U.S. Navy. OHares plan required the Carriers Fighter Director Officer (FDO) to spot incoming enemy formations at a distance and send a "Bat Team" section consisting of a Grumman TBF Avenger torpedo bomber and two Grumman F6F Hellcat fighters toward the Japanese intruders. Although improvements in new types of aviation radar were soon forthcoming from the engineers at MIT and the electronic industry, the available primitive radars in 1943 were very bulky, attributed to the fact that they contained vacuum tube technology. Radars were carried only on the roomy TBF Avengers, but not on the smaller and faster Hellcats, so the radar-equipped TBF Avenger would lead the Hellcats into position behind the incoming bombers, close enough for the F6F pilots to spot visually the blue exhaust flames of the Japanese bombers. Finally, the Hellcats would close in and shoot down the torpedo-carrying bombers.

One of the four Bat Team fighter pilots to conduct this experimental night fighter operations to intercept and destroy enemy bombers attacking Allied landing forces was then-LT Roy Marlin Voris, who after the war founded and commanded the Navys flight demonstration squadron, the Blue Angels#History Blue Angels.

On the night of November 26, 1943, the Enterprise introduced the experiment in the co-operative control of Avengers and Hellcats for night fighting, when the three-plane team from the ship broke up a large group of land-based bombers attacking Task Group TG 50.2. OHare volunteered to lead this mission to conduct the first-ever Navy nighttime fighter attack from an aircraft carrier to intercept a large force of enemy torpedo bombers. When the call came to man the fighters, Butch OHare was eating. He grabbed up part of his supper in his fist and started running for the ready room. He was dressed in loose marine coveralls. The night fighter unit consisting of 1 VT and 2 VF was catapulted between 17:58 and 18:01. The pilots for this flight were Butch OHare and Ensign Warren Andrew "Andy" Skon of VF-2 in F6Fs and the Squadron Commander of VT-6, LCDR John C. Phillips
in a TBF1-C. The crew of the TBF torpedo plane consisted of LTJG Hazen B. Rand, a radar specialist and Alvin Kernan, A. B., AOM1/c. The Black Panthers, as the night fighters were dubbed, took off before dusk and flew out into the incoming mass of Japanese planes.

Confusion and complications endangered the success of the mission. The Hellcats first had trouble finding the Avenger, the FDO had difficulty guiding any of them on the targets. OHare and Ensign W. Skon in their F6F Hellcats finally got into position behind the Avenger. Butch OHare had been well aware of the deadly danger of friendly fire in this situation – he radioed to the Avenger Pilot of his section, "Hey, Phil, turn those running lights on. I want to be sure its a yellow devil Im drilling."
OHare was last seen at the 5 oclock position of the TBF. About that time, the turret gunner of the TBF, Alvin Kernan (AOM1/c) noticed a Japanese G4M Betty bomber above and almost directly behind OHares 6 oclock position.
Kernan opened fire with the TBFs .50-cal. machine gun in the dorsal turret and a Japanese gunner fired back. Butch OHares F6F Hellcat apparently was caught in a crossfire. Seconds later Butchs F6F slid out of formation to port, pushing slightly ahead at about 160 knots and then vanished in the dark. The Avenger pilot, Lieutenant Commander Phillips, called repeatedly to OHare but received no reply. Ensign Skon responded:
"Mr. Phillips, this is Skon. I saw Mr. OHares lights go out and, at the same instant, he seemed to veer off and slant down into darkness." Phillips later asserted, as the Hellcat dropped out of view, it seemed to release something that fell almost vertically at a speed too slow for anything but a parachute. Then something "whitish-gray" appeared below, perhaps the splash of the aircraft plunging into the sea.

Lieutenant Commander Phillips reported the position ({{coord 1 26 0 N 171 56 0 W display=inline type:landmark name=Place where Ohares aircraft went down.}}) to the ship. After dawn a three-plane search was made, but no trace of OHare or his aircraft was found. On November 29 a PBY Catalina flying boat also conducted a search with no positive result, and OHare was reported missing in action.
For 54 years there was no definitive answer as to whether he had been brought down by friendly fire or the Japanese bombers nose gunner. In 1997 the publication of the primary source for this article, Fateful Rendezvous: The Life of Butch OHare, by Steve Ewing and John B. Lundstrom (see References below) shed new light. Ewing and Lundstrom very clearly state, more than once, that Japanese guns, and not Kernans, killed Butch OHare.

In Chapter 16, "What Happened to Butch," the authors write, "Butch fell to his old familiar adversary, a Betty. Most likely he died from, or was immediately disabled by, a lucky shot from the forward observer crouched in the rikkos [Bettys] forward glassed-in nose...the nose gunners 7.7mm slugs very likely penetrated Butchs cockpit from above on the port side and ahead of the F6Fs armor plate."
In the Index, Ewing and Lundstrom flatly state that Kernan is "wrongly accused of shooting down Butch."
Why the confusion for so many years? Ewing and Lundstrom point out that the "most influential and oft-cited" account of OHares last mission came in a 1962 history of the Enterprise by CDR Edward P. Stafford, which relied on action reports and recollections of former Enterprise crew, but did not contain interviews with any of the living participants. By contrast, Ewing and Lundstrom came to their conclusions on what happened to Butch after interviewing the still living survivors of O’Hare’s last mission: F6F pilot Skon, TBF radar officer Rand, and TBF gunner Kernan. Ewing and Lundstrom write, "Through Stafford and other accounts based largely on the action reports, Butch has wrongly become known as one of Americas most famous "friendly fire" casualties."
On December 9, official word arrived that OHare was missing in action. His mother Selma left for San Diego to be with his wife Rita and his daughter Kathleen. LCDR Bob Jackson wrote to Rita OHare from the Enterprise to describe the extensive but unsuccessful search for her husband. In the letter, LCDR Jackson quoted RADM Arthur W. Radford saying of Butch OHare that he "never saw one individual so universally liked."
The hardest thing OHares former wingman LT Alex Vraciu had to do was to talk to OHares wife Rita after returning stateside.
On December 20, 1943, a Solemn Pontifical Mass of Requiem was offered for Butch OHare at the Cathedral Basilica of St. Louis St. Louis Cathedral.
As OHare went missing on November 26, 1943, and was declared dead a year later, his widow Rita received her husbands Posthumous recognition posthumous decorations, a Purple Heart and the Navy Cross (United States) Navy Cross on November 26, 1944.

==Honors and awards==
===Medal of Honor citation===
File:Fdr ohare moh.jpg thumb right Medal of Honor presentation on April 21, 1942: President Roosevelt, Frank Knox, Secretary of the Navy (behind FDR), Ernest King Admiral Ernest King, Edward OHare and his wife Rita.

{{quote For conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity in aerial combat, at grave risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty, as section leader and pilot of Fighting Squadron 3 on February 20, 1942. Having lost the assistance of his teammates, Lieutenant OHare interposed his fighter between his ship and an advancing enemy formation of 9 attacking twin-engine heavy bombers. Without hesitation, alone and unaided, he repeatedly attacked this enemy formation, at close range in the face of intense combined machine gun and cannon fire. Despite this concentrated opposition, Lieutenant OHare, by his gallant and courageous action, his extremely skillful marksmanship in making the most of every shot of his limited amount of ammunition, shot down 5 enemy bombers and severely damaged a sixth before they reached the bomb release point. As a result of his gallant action—one of the most daring, if not the most daring, single action in the history of combat aviation—he undoubtedly saved his carrier from serious damage.
}}

===Navy Cross citation===
{{quote The President of the United States of America takes pride in presenting the Navy Cross (Posthumously) to Lieutenant Commander Edward Henry "Butch" OHare (NSN: 0-78672), United States Navy, for extraordinary heroism in operations against the enemy while serving as Pilot of a carrier-based Navy Fighter Plane in Fighting Squadron TWO (VF-2), attached to the U.S.S. ENTERPRISE (CV-6), and deployed over Tarawa in the Gilbert Islands, in action against enemy Japanese forces on 26 November 1943. When warnings were received of the approach of a large force of Japanese torpedo bombers, Lieutenant Commander OHare volunteered to lead a fighter section of aircraft from his carrier, the first time such a mission had been attempted at night, in order to intercept the attackers. He fearlessly led his three-plane group into combat against a large formation of hostile aircraft and assisted in shooting down two Japanese airplanes and dispersed the remainder. Lieutenant Commander OHares outstanding courage, daring airmanship and devotion to duty were in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service. He gallantly gave his life for his country.
}}

===USS OHare===
On January 27, 1945 the United States Navy named a {{sclass- Gearing destroyer}} {{USS OHare DD-889 6}} in his honor. The ship was Ship naming and launching launched June 22, 1945 with his mother, Selma O’Hare, as the sponsor.
OHare was decommissioned on October 31, 1973, then transferred on loan and later sold to the Spanish Navy. In 1992, the Spanish Navy decommissioned and scrapped the ship.
