File:DeHavilland Vampire HMS Ocean Dec1945 NAN1 47.jpg thumb On 3 December 1945, Brown became the first pilot to land on and take off (pictured) from an aircraft carrier in a jet-engined aircraft when he flew a de Havilland Vampire de Havilland Sea Vampire to HMS Ocean (R68) HMS Ocean.
Captain (Royal Navy) Captain Eric Melrose "Winkle" Brown, Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire CBE, Distinguished Service Cross (United Kingdom) DSC, Air Force Cross (United Kingdom) AFC, Royal Aeronautical Society Hon FRAeS, Royal Navy RN
(21 January 1919 – 21 February 2016) was a British Royal Navy officer and test pilot who flew 487 types of aircraft, more than anyone else in history.
He was also the most-decorated pilot in the history of the Royal Navy.
Brown holds the Guinness World Records world record for the most aircraft carrier deck take-offs and landings performed (2,407 and 2,271 respectively)
and achieved several "firsts" in naval aviation, including the first landings on an aircraft carrier of a twin-engined aircraft, an aircraft with a tricycle undercarriage, a jet propulsion jet-propelled aircraft, and rotary-wing aircraft.

He also flew almost every category of Royal Navy and RAF aircraft: glider, fighter, bomber, airliner, amphibian, flying boat and helicopter. During World War II, he also flew many types of captured German, Italian, and Japanese aircraft, including new jets and rocket planes. He was a pioneer of jet technology into the postwar era.
==Early life==
Brown was born in Leith, near Edinburgh, Scotland.
His father was a former balloon observer and pilot in the Royal Flying Corps (RFC) and Brown first flew when he was eight or ten when he was taken up in a Gloster Gauntlet by his father, the younger Brown sitting on his fathers knee.
In 1936, Browns father took him to see the 1936 Summer Olympics 1936 Olympics in Berlin. Hermann Göring had recently announced the existence of the Luftwaffe, so Brown and his father met and were invited to join social gatherings by members of the newly disclosed organisation. It was here that Eric Brown first met Ernst Udet, a former World War I fighter ace, who was fascinated to make the acquaintance of a former RFC pilot, and Eric, his son.
Brown soon discovered in himself and Udet a shared love of flying and Udet offered to take Eric up with him.
Brown eagerly accepted the Germans offer and after his arrival at the appointed airfield at Halle, Saxony-Anhalt Halle, he was soon flying in a two-seat Bücker Bü 131 Bücker Jungmann. Brown recalled the incident nearly 80 years later on the BBC radio programme Desert Island Discs,
{{quote You talk about aerobatics – we did every one I think and I was hanging on to my tummy. So, when we landed, and he gave me the fright of my life because we approached upside-down and then he rolled out just in time to land, he said to me as I got out of the cockpit, slapped me between the shoulder-blades, and gave me the old WW1 fighter pilots greeting, break a leg Hals- und Beinbruch, which means broken neck and broken legs but that was their greeting. But he said to me, youll make a fine fighter pilot – do me two favours: learn to speak German language German fluently and learn to fly.}}

In 1937, Brown left the Royal High School, Edinburgh Royal High School and entered the University of Edinburgh, studying Modern Languages modern languages with an emphasis on German. While there he joined the universitys air unit and received his first formal flying instruction.
In February 1938 he returned to Germany under the sponsorship of the Foreign Office, having been invited to attend the 1938 Automobile Exhibition by Udet, by then a Luftwaffe major general.
He there saw the demonstration of the Focke-Wulf Fw 61 helicopter flown by Hanna Reitsch before a small crowd inside the Deutschlandhalle. During this visit he met and got to know Reitsch, whom he had also briefly met in 1936.
In the meantime, Brown had been selected to take part as an exchange student at the Schule Schloss Salem, located on the banks of Lake Constance, and it was while there in Germany that Brown was woken up with a loud knocking on his door one morning in September 1939. Upon opening the door he was met by a woman with the announcement that "United Kingdom declaration of war upon Germany (1939) our countries are at war". Soon after, Brown was arrested by the Schutzstaffel SS. However, after three days incarceration, they merely escorted Brown in his MG N-type MG Magnette sports car to the Swiss border, saying they were allowing him to keep the car because they "had no spares for it".
==Wartime service==
File:HMS Audacity (D10).jpg thumb 305px A 1941 image of the HMS Audacity (D10) HMS Audacity after her July 1941 conversion to an escort carrier; Brown served on her in the 802 Naval Air Squadron 802 Squadron until the carrier was torpedoed in December 1941
On returning to a United Kingdom then at war, Brown joined the Royal Navy Volunteer Reserve as a Fleet Air Arm pilot, where he was posted to 802 Naval Air Squadron, initially serving on the first escort carrier, HMS Audacity (D10) HMS Audacity, converted and thus named in July 1941.
He flew one of the carriers Grumman F4F Wildcat Grumman Martlet. During his service on board the Audacity he shot down two Focke-Wulf Fw 200 Condor Focke-Wulf Fw 200 "Condor" maritime patrol aircraft, using head-on attacks to exploit the Blind spot (vehicle) blind spot in their defensive armament.
The Audacity was torpedoed and sunk on 21 December 1941 by German submarine U-751 U-751, commanded by Gerhard Bigalk.
The first rescue ship left because of warnings of a nearby U-boat, and Brown was left in the sea overnight with a dwindling band of survivors, until he alone was rescued the next day.
He was the only one of the 24 to survive the hypothermia; the rest succumbed to the cold.
The loss of life was such that 802 Squadron was disbanded until February 1942. On 10 March 1942, Brown was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross (United Kingdom) Distinguished Service Cross for his service on Audacity, in particular "For bravery and skill in action against Enemy aircraft and in the protection of a Convoy against heavy and sustained Enemy attacks".
Following the loss of Audacity, Brown resumed operational flying, being Secondment seconded to Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF) squadrons flying escort operations to United States Army Air Forces USAAF Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress B-17s over France. His job was to train them in deck-landing techniques, though the training took place on airfields.
As a form of quid pro quo {{clarify text=he joined them on fighter operations.

Next operational once again, in 1943, he then went back to the RAE, reason=Operation-related terms appear throughout and in these two paragraphs in particular in a way that borders on jargon and makes it difficult to understand when he is operational, when not, and which service hes operational in. For example, in the part that is highlighted, is he not yet operational when hes joining fighter operations? Please make this sequence of operations flow clearly throughout and with defined boundaries in time, location and service organisation.  date=February 2018}} this time to perform experimental flying, almost immediately being transferred to Southern Italy to evaluate captured Regia Aeronautica and Luftwaffe aircraft. This Brown did with almost no tuition, information having to be gleaned from whatever documents were available. On completion of these duties, his commander, being impressed with his performance, sent him back to the RAE with the recommendation that he be employed in the Aerodynamics Flight department at Farnborough. During the first month in the Flight, Brown flew 13 aircraft types, including a captured Focke-Wulf Fw 190.

Brown was posted to the Royal Aircraft Establishment (RAE) at Farnborough Airfield Farnborough, where his experience in Flight deck deck landings was sought. While there he initially performed testing of the newly navalised Sea Hurricane#Sea Hurricanes Sea Hurricane and Supermarine Seafire Seafire. His aptitude for deck landings led to his posting for the testing of carriers landing arrangements before they were brought into service. The testing involved multiple combinations of landing point and type of aircraft, with the result being that by the close of 1943 he had performed around 1,500 deck landings on 22 different carriers. In six years at RAE, Brown recalled that he hardly ever took a single days leave.
