Frank Luke Jr. (May 19, 1897 – September 29, 1918) was an American fighter ace, ranking second among United States Army Air Service U.S. Army Air Service pilots after Captain Eddie Rickenbacker in number of aerial victories during World War I (Rickenbacker was credited with 26 victories, while Lukes official score was 18). Frank Luke was the first airman to receive the Medal of Honor.
Luke Air Force Base, Arizona, a U.S. Air Force pilot training installation since World War II, is named in his honor.

==Biography==
Luke was born May 19, 1897, in Phoenix, Arizona, after his family emigrated from Germany to America in 1874 and settled there. Frank was his familys fifth child, and had eight other brothers and sisters. He grew up excelling in sports, working in copper mines, and participating in bare-knuckle boxing matches. Following Americas entry into World War I in April 1917, Frank enlisted in the Aviation Section, U.S. Signal Corps on September 25, 1917, and received pilot training in Texas and California. After being commissioned a Second Lieutenant#United States Second Lieutenant in March 1918, he deployed to France for further training, and in July was assigned to the 27th Fighter Squadron 27th Aero Squadron.
Although Luke was still a second lieutenant at the time of his death, Stephen Skinners book The Stand notes that he later received a posthumous promotion to first lieutenant.

Because of his arrogance and occasional tendencies to fly alone and disobey orders, Luke was disliked by some of his peers and superiors.  But the 27th was under standing orders to destroy German observation balloons.  Because of this, Luke, along with his close friend Lt. Joseph Frank Wehner, continually volunteered to attack these important targets although they were heavily defended by anti-aircraft guns on the ground.  The two pilots began a remarkable string of victories together, with Luke attacking the balloons and Wehner flying protective cover.  Wehner was killed in action on September 18, 1918, in a dogfight with Fokker D.VIIs which were attacking Luke. Luke then shot down two of these D.VIIs and two balloons and a Halberstadt; the last "credit" enabled Luke to thereby achieve his 13th official kill—a Halberstadt Ctype observation plane of Flieger Abteilung 36.
File:Frank Luke.gif 250px right thumb Luke with his 13th official kill September 18, 1918

Between September 12 and September 29, Luke was credited with shooting down 14 German balloons and four airplanes:
Luke achieved these 18 victories during just 10 sorties in eight days, a feat unsurpassed by any pilot in World War I.
==Death—September 29, 1918==
File:frankluke.jpg thumb right Lt. Frank Luke, Jr. with his SPAD S.XIII on September 19, 1918.
File:Phoenix-Frank Luke Jr. SPAD XIII-Sky Harbor Airport-1.JPG 250px thumb A SPAD XIII painted to represent the one flown by Frank Luke, Jr. The plane is approximately 80% original parts from several aircraft. It is one of five surviving today and is on display in Terminal 3 of Phoenix, Arizona Phoenixs Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport Sky Harbor Airport.

Lukes final flight took place during the first phase of the Meuse-Argonne Offensive. On September 28, after achieving his 14th and 15th victories, he landed his SPAD XIII at the French aerodrome at Cicognes where he spent the night, claiming engine trouble.
When he returned to the 1st Pursuit Groups base at Rembercourt-Sommaisne Rembercourt the next day, he was confronted by Captain Alfred A. Grant, his squadrons commanding officer (C.O.). Despite being under threat of arrest by Grant for being Desertion#Absence without leave AWOL, Luke took off without authorization and flew to a forward airbase at Verdun, where his sympathetic group commander, Major Hartney, canceled the arrest order and gave Luke tacit approval to continue his balloon hunting.
That evening Luke flew to the front to attack three balloons in the vicinity of Dun-sur-Meuse, six miles behind the German lines. He first dropped a message to a nearby U.S. balloon company, alerting them to observe his imminent attacks.  Luke shot down the enemy balloons, but was then severely wounded by a single machine gun bullet fired from a hilltop above him, a mile east of the last balloon site he had attacked.
Luke landed in a field just west of the small village of Murvaux—after strafing a group of German soldiers on the ground—near the Ruisseau de Bradon, a stream leading to the Meuse River.  Although weakened by his wound, he made his way toward the stream, intending to reach the cover of its adjacent underbrush, but finally collapsed some 200 meters from his airplane. Approached by German infantry, Luke drew his Colt Model 1911 pistol and fired a few rounds at his attackers before dying. Reports that a day later his body was found with an empty gun and a bullet hole in his chest, with seven dead Germans in front of him were proven erroneous.
According to author Skinner, the fatal bullet, fired from the hilltop machine gun position, had entered near Lukes right shoulder, passed through his body, and exited from his left side.

On September 30 the Germans buried Luke in the Murvaux cemetery, from where his body was retrieved two months later by American forces.  His final resting place is the Meuse-Argonne American Cemetery and Memorial, located east of the village of Romagne-sous-Montfaucon.

After the US Army obtained sworn testimony from French and American sources, Luke was awarded a Posthumous recognition posthumous Medal of Honor.  The presentation was made to Frank Luke, Sr., in Phoenix in May 1919. The family later donated the medal to the National Museum of the United States Air Force near Dayton, Ohio.  The museums small exhibit honoring Lt. Frank Luke also contains his flying goggles, the gunsight from his last SPAD, documents written by Luke, and other personal items.  The museums Early Years Gallery displays a fully restored SPAD XIII of the type flown by Luke.

Eddie Rickenbacker said of Luke: "He was the most daring aviator and greatest fighter pilot of the entire war. His life is one of the brightest glories of our Air Service. He went on a rampage and shot down fourteen enemy aircraft, including ten balloons, in eight days. No other ace, even the dreaded Red Baron Richthofen, had ever come close to that."
==Other aces==
Luke is often cited as the second-ranking American ace of World War I, but that statement ignores certain American pilots who flew with other Allied air services. Luke was, however, second only to Rickenbacker among pilots serving only with the AEF. (It is noteworthy that Lukes time on the front was comparatively quite short, and 17 of Lukes 18 victories were officially recorded as destroyed, versus only 11 of Rickenbackers 26.)  Americans flying with Britains Royal Flying Corps (Royal Air Force from April 1918) who exceeded Lukes score were Frederick W. Gillet (20 claims, all destroyed); Harold Albert Kullberg, DFC, Lt. 1 Sqn RFC (19 confirmed) and Wilfred Beaver (19 claims, 12 destroyed).  Tied with Luke at 18 was William C. Lambert (18 claims).
