Gary Anthony James Webb (born 8 March 1958), known professionally as Gary Numan, is an English singer, songwriter, composer, musician and record producer. Born in Hammersmith, West London, he first entered the music industry as lead singer of the New wave music new wave band Tubeway Army. After releasing two albums with the band, Numan released his debut solo album The Pleasure Principle (Gary Numan album) The Pleasure Principle in 1979.

With number-one singles "Are "Friends" Electric? Are Friends Electric?" and "Cars (song) Cars", Numan achieved his peak of mainstream popularity in the late 1970s and early 1980s, but maintains a cult following.
His signature sound consists of heavy synthesiser Hook (music) hooks fed through guitar Effects unit effects pedals, and he is considered a pioneer of commercial electronic music.
Numan is also known for his distinctive voice and Androgyny androgynous "android" persona.
In 2017 he received an Ivor Novello Awards Ivor Novello Award, the Inspiration Award, from the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers, and Authors.

==Early life==
Gary Anthony James Webb was born on 8 March 1958 in Hammersmith, West London (sub region) West London, the son of a British Airways bus driver based at Heathrow Airport.
He was educated at Town Farm Junior School in Stanwell Stanwell, Surrey, Ashford, Surrey Ashford County Grammar School, then Upton Court Grammar School Slough Grammar School in Berkshire,
followed by Brooklands Technical College in Surrey. He joined the Air Training Corps as a teenager. He then briefly held various jobs including forklift truck driver, air conditioning ventilator fitter, and accounts clerk.

When Numan was 15 years old, his father bought him a Gibson Les Paul, which he regards as his most treasured possession.
He played in various bands, including Mean Street and the Lasers, before forming Tubeway Army with his uncle, Jess Lidyard, and Paul Gardiner. His initial pseudonym was "Valerian", probably in reference to the hero in French science fiction comic series Valérian and Laureline.
He later picked the surname "Numan" from an advert in the Yellow pages for a plumber whose surname was "Neumann".
==Career==

===1970s===

====Tubeway Army====
Numan came to prominence at the end of the 1970s as lead singer, songwriter, and record producer for Tubeway Army. After recording an albums worth of punk rock punk-influenced Demo (music) demo tapes (released in 1984 as The Plan (Tubeway Army album) The Plan), he was signed by Beggars Banquet Records in 1978 and quickly released two singles, "Thats Too Bad" and "Bombers (Gary Numan song) Bombers", neither of which charted.

A self-titled, New wave music new wave-oriented Tubeway Army (album) debut album later that same year sold out its limited run and introduced Numans fascination with dystopian science fiction
and synthesisers. Tubeway Armys third single, the dark-themed and slow-paced "Down in the Park" (1979), also failed to chart, but it would prove to be one of Numans most enduring and oft-covered songs. It was featured with other contemporary hits on the soundtrack for the 1980 film Times Square (film) Times Square, and a live version of the song can be seen in the 1982 film Urgh! A Music War. Following exposure in a television advertisement for Lee Cooper jeans with the jingle "Dont Be a Dummy",
Tubeway Army released the single "Are "Friends" Electric? Are Friends Electric?" in May 1979. The single took seven weeks before finally reaching No. 1 at the end of June; its parent album Replicas (album) Replicas simultaneously reached No. 1.

====As Gary Numan====
A few months later Numan found success in the charts on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean with "Cars (song) Cars", which peaked at No. 1 in the UK in 1979, No. 1 in Canada
and No. 9 in the U.S. in 1980. "Cars" and the 1979 album The Pleasure Principle (Gary Numan album) The Pleasure Principle were both released under Numans own stage name. The album reached number-one in the UK, and a sell-out tour (The Touring Principle) followed; the Concert film concert video it spawned is often cited as the first full-length commercial music video release.
The Pleasure Principle was a rock album with no guitars; instead, Numan used synthesisers fed through guitar effects pedals to achieve a distorted, phased, metallic tone. A second single from the album, "Complex (song) Complex", made it to No. 6 on the UK Singles Chart.

====Personality and style====
Around this time, Numan also developed his style. According to Numan, this was an unintentional result of acne; before an appearance on Top of the Pops, he had "spots everywhere, so they slapped about half an inch of white make-up on me before Id even walked in the door. And my eyes were like pissholes in the snow, so they put black on there. My so-called image fell into place an hour before going on the show".
