education = Yale University (Bachelor of Arts BA)
  signature = George HW Bush Signature.svg
  signature_alt = Cursive signature in ink
  website = {{url bushlibrary.tamu.edu Presidential Library}}
  allegiance = {{flagu United States 1912}}
  branch = {{naval United States 1864}}
  serviceyears = 1942–1945
  rank = File:US Navy O2 infobox.svg 25px Lieutenant (junior grade) Lieutenant (Junior Grade)
  unit = Fast Carrier Task Force
  battles = World War II
  mawards       = {{plainlist 
* File:Distinguished Flying Cross ribbon.svg border 23px Distinguished Flying Cross (United States) Distinguished Flying Cross
* File:Air Medal ribbon.svg border 23px Air Medal
* File:United States Navy Presidential Unit Citation ribbon.svg border 23px Presidential Unit Citation (United States) Presidential Unit Citation}}
}}
{{George H. W. Bush series}}
George Herbert Walker Bush (born June 12, 1924) is an American politician who served as the 41st President of the United States from 1989 to 1993. Prior to assuming the presidency, Bush served as the List of Vice Presidents of the United States 43rd Vice President of the United States from 1981 to 1989. A member of the Republican Party (United States) Republican Party, he had previously been a Congressman, Ambassador and Director of Central Intelligence. During his career in public sector public service, he was known simply as George Bush; since 2001, he has often been referred to as "George H. W. Bush", "Bush 41", or "George Bush Senior" in order to distinguish him from his eldest son, George W. Bush, the 43rd president of the United States. He is the nations oldest Living Presidents of the United States living president and vice president, as well as the List of Presidents of the United States by age longest-lived president in history.

A member of the Bush family, he was born in Milton, Massachusetts to Prescott Bush and Dorothy Walker Bush. Following the attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, Bush postponed his university studies, enlisted in the U.S. Navy on his 18th birthday, and became the youngest naval aviator aviator in the U.S. Navy at the time. He served until September 1945, then attended Yale University. Graduating in 1948, he moved his family to West Texas, where he entered the oil business and became a millionaire by the age of 40 in 1964. Soon after founding his own oil company, Bush became involved in politics and won election to the United States House of Representatives House of Representatives from Texas 7th congressional district Texas 7th district in 1966. In 1971, President Richard Nixon appointed Bush as United States Ambassador to the United Nations Ambassador to the United Nations, and in 1973, Bush became the Chairman of the Republican National Committee. The following year, President Gerald Ford appointed Bush as the ambassador to China and later reassigned Bush to the position of Director of Central Intelligence. Bush ran for president in United States presidential election, 1980 1980 but was defeated in the Republican Party presidential primaries, 1980 Republican primary by Ronald Reagan. Reagan chose Bush as his running mate, and Bush became vice president after the Reagan–Bush ticket won the 1980 election. During his eight-year tenure as vice president, Bush headed administration task forces on deregulation and fighting the War on Drugs.

In United States presidential election, 1988 1988, Bush ran George H. W. Bush presidential campaign, 1988 a successful campaign to succeed Reagan as President, defeating Democratic Party (United States) Democratic opponent Michael Dukakis. Foreign policy drove the Bush presidency: military operations were conducted United States invasion of Panama in Panama and Gulf War the Persian Gulf; the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, and the Soviet Union dissolved two years later. Though the agreement was not ratified until after he left office, Bush also signed the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which created a trade bloc consisting of the United States, Canada, and Mexico. Domestically, Bush Read my lips: no new taxes reneged on a 1988 campaign promise and, after a struggle with Congress, signed an increase in taxes that Congress had passed. In the wake of a weak recovery from an Early 1990s recession economic recession, along with continuing budget deficits and the diminution of foreign politics as a major issue in a post-Cold War political climate, he lost the United States presidential election, 1992 1992 presidential election to Democrat Bill Clinton.

Bush left office in 1993. His George Bush Presidential Library presidential library was dedicated in 1997, and he has been active—often alongside Bill Clinton—in various humanitarian activities. With George W. Bushs victory in the 2000 presidential election, Bush and his son became the second father–son combination to serve as president, following John Adams and John Quincy Adams. Bushs second son, Jeb Bush, served as the List of Governors of Florida 43rd Governor of Florida from 1999 to 2007.

==Early life and education==
{{See also Bush family}}
File:George H W Bush at Age One and One-Half, ca 1925.gif thumb left upright George H. W. Bush, c. 1925
<!--And yes we know there is a piece of broccoli in his hand, please dont mention here that he hates it as it is too trivial-->
George Herbert Walker Bush was born at 173 Adams Street in Milton, Massachusetts,
on June 12, 1924, to Prescott Bush Prescott Sheldon Bush and Dorothy (Walker) Bush. The Bush family moved from Milton to Greenwich, Connecticut, shortly after his birth. Growing up, he used the nickname "Poppy".
Bush began his formal education at the Greenwich Country Day School in Greenwich. Beginning in 1938, he attended Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts, where he held a number of leadership positions that included president of the senior class, secretary of the student council, president of the community fund-raising group, a member of the editorial board of the school newspaper, and captain of both the varsity baseball and soccer teams.
===World War II===
File:George Bush being rescued by the submarine, the U.S.S. Finback, after being shot down while on a bombing run of the... - NARA - 186382.tif thumb upright Shipmates of the submarine USS Finback rescue Bush

The United States formally entered World War II in December 1941, following Empire of Japan Japans surprise attack on Pearl Harbor in Hawaii. Six months later, Bush enlisted into the United States Navy U.S. Navy
immediately after he graduated from Phillips Academy on his eighteenth birthday. He became a naval aviator, taking training for aircraft carrier operations aboard USS Sable (IX-81) USS Sable.
After completing the 10-month course, he was commissioned as an Ensign (rank) ensign in the United States Naval Reserve at Naval Air Station Corpus Christi on June 9, 1943 (just three days before his 19th birthday), which made him the youngest naval aviator to that date.
In September 1943, he was assigned to Torpedo Squadron 51 (VT-51) as the photographic officer.
The following year, his squadron was based in {{USS San Jacinto CVL-30 6}} as a member of Air Group 51, where his lanky physique earned him the nickname "Skin".
During this time, the task force was victorious in one of the largest air battles of World War II: the Battle of the Philippine Sea.
After Bushs promotion to lieutenant (junior grade) on August 1, 1944, San Jacinto commenced operations against the Japanese in the Bonin Islands. Bush piloted one of four Grumman TBM Avengers of VT-51 that attacked the Japanese installations on Chichijima.
His crew for the mission, which occurred on September 2, 1944, included Radioman Second Class John Delaney and Lt.(jg) William White.
During their attack, the Avengers encountered intense Anti-aircraft artillery anti-a fire; Bushs aircraft was hit by flak and his engine caught fire. Despite the fire in his aircraft, Bush completed his attack and released bombs over his target, scoring several damaging hits.
With his engine ablaze, Bush flew several miles from the island, where he and one other crew member of the TBM bailed out;
the other mans parachute did not open.
Bush waited for four hours in an inflated raft, while several fighters circled protectively overhead, until he was rescued by the submarine {{USS Finback SS-230 6}}, on lifeguard duty.
For the next month, he remained in Finback and participated in the rescue of other aviators. Several of those shot down during the attack were executed, and their livers were Chichijima incident eaten by their captors.
This experience shaped Bush profoundly, leading him to ask, "Why had I been spared and what did God have for me?"
File:George H.W. Bush seated in a Grumman TBM Avenger, circa 1944 (H069-13).jpg thumb left upright Bush in his TBM aboard San Jacinto in  1944
In November 1944, Bush returned to San Jacinto and participated in operations in the Philippines until his squadron was replaced and sent home to the United States. Through 1944, he flew 58 combat missions
for which he received the Distinguished Flying Cross (United States) Distinguished Flying Cross, three Air Medals, and the Presidential Unit Citation (United States) Presidential Unit Citation awarded to San Jacinto.
Bush was then reassigned to a training wing for torpedo bomber crews at Naval Station Norfolk Norfolk Navy Base, Virginia. His final assignment was as to a new torpedo squadron, VT-153, based at Naval Air Station Grosse Ile, Michigan. Bush was Military discharge honorably discharged from the U.S. Navy in September 1945, one month after the Victory over Japan Day surrender of Japan].
==Marriage and college years==
When Bush was still in the Navy, he married Barbara Bush Barbara Pierce (1925–2018) in Rye, New York on January 6, 1945.
The marriage produced six children: George W. Bush George W. (b. 1946), Pauline Robinson Bush Robin (1949–1953), Jeb Bush Jeb (b. 1953), Neil Bush Neil (b. 1955), Marvin Bush Marvin (b. 1956), and Dorothy Bush Koch Doro (b. 1959).
