module2 = {{infobox military person embed=yes
 nickname      = {{Hlist "Gene" "Gore"}}
 branch        = {{Army United States}}
<br/>
{{Ublist File:US Army Air Corps Hap Arnold Wings.svg 25px United States Army Air Forces}}
 serviceyears  = 1943–46
 rank          = File:US-Army-WO1.svg 10px Warrant officer (United States) Warrant Officer
 unit          = {{Ublist 35th Fighter Squadron}}
}}

}}
Eugene Luther Gore Vidal ({{IPAc-en v ᵻ ˈ d ɑː l}}; born Eugene Louis Vidal; October 3, 1925 – July 31, 2012) was an American writer and public intellectual known for his Patrician (ancient Rome) patrician manner, epigrammatic wit, and polished style of writing.
Vidal was born to a political family; his maternal grandfather, Thomas Pryor Gore, served as United States senator from Oklahoma (1907–1921 and 1931–1937). He was a Democratic Party (United States) Democratic Party politician who twice sought elected office; first to the United States House of Representatives (New York, 1960), then to the U.S. Senate (California, 1982).
As a political commentator and essayist, Vidals principal subject was the history of the United States and its society, especially how the militaristic foreign policy reduced the country to a American imperialism decadent empire.
His political and cultural essays were published in The Nation, the New Statesman, the New York Review of Books, and Esquire (magazine) Esquire magazines. As a public intellectual, Gore Vidals topical debates on sex, politics, and religion with other intellectuals and writers occasionally turned into quarrels with the likes of William F. Buckley Jr. and Norman Mailer. Vidal thought all men and women are potentially bisexual, so he rejected the adjectives "homosexual" and "heterosexual" when used as nouns, as inherently false terms used to classify and control people in society.
As a novelist Vidal explored the nature of corruption in public and private life. His polished and erudite style of narration readily evoked the time and place of his stories, and perceptively delineated the psychology of his characters.
His third novel, The City and the Pillar (1948), offended the literary, political, and moral sensibilities of conservative book reviewers, with a dispassionately presented male homosexual relationship.
In the historical novel genre, Vidal re-created in Julian (historical novel) Julian (1964) the imperial world of Julian (emperor) Julian the Apostate (r. AD 361–63), the Roman emperor who used general religious toleration to re-establish pagan polytheism to counter the political subversion of Christian monotheism.
In the genre of social satire, Myra Breckinridge (1968) explores the mutability of gender role and sexual orientation as being social constructs established by Mores social mores.
In Burr (novel) Burr (1973) and Lincoln (novel) Lincoln (1984), the protagonist is presented as "A Man of the People" and as "A Man" in a narrative exploration of how the public and private facets of personality affect the national politics of the U.S.
==Early life==
Eugene Louis Vidal was born in the cadet hospital of the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York, the only child of Eugene Luther Vidal (1895–1969) and Nina S. Gore (1903–1978).
Vidal was born there because his first lieutenant father was the first aeronautics instructor of the military academy. The middle name, Louis, was a mistake on the part of his father, "who could not remember, for certain, whether his own name was Eugene Louis or Eugene Luther".
In the memoir Palimpsest (1995), Vidal said, "My birth certificate says Eugene Louis Vidal: this was changed to Eugene Luther Vidal Jr.; then Gore was added at my christening [in 1939]; then, at fourteen, I got rid of the first two names."
Eugene Louis Vidal was not baptized until January 1939, when he was 13 years old, by the headmaster of St. Albans School (Washington, D.C.) St. Albans school, where Vidal attended preparatory school. The baptismal ceremony was effected so he "could be confirmed [into the Episcopal faith]" at the Washington Cathedral, in February 1939, as "Eugene Luther Gore Vidal".
He later said that, although the surname "Gore" was added to his names at the time of the baptism, "I wasnt named for him [maternal grandfather Thomas Pryor Gore], although he had a great influence on my life."
In 1941, Vidal dropped his two first names, because he "wanted a sharp, distinctive name, appropriate for an aspiring author, or a national political leader ... I wasnt going to write as Gene since there was already one. I didnt want to use the Jr.{{"}}
File:GoreVidalVanVechten1.jpg thumb left Vidal in 1948

Eugene Luther Vidal Sr. was director (1933–37) of the Department of Commerce Commerce Departments Bureau of Air Commerce during the Presidency of Franklin D. Roosevelt Roosevelt Administration, and also was the great love of the aviator Amelia Earhart.
At the U.S. Military Academy, the exceptionally athletic Vidal Sr. had been a quarterback, coach, and captain of the football team; and an all-American basketball player. Subsequently, he competed in the 1920 Summer Olympics and in the 1924 Summer Olympics (seventh in the decathlon, and coach of the U.S. pentathlon).
In the 1920s and the 1930s, Vidal Sr. co-founded three airline companies and a railroad line; (i) the Ludington Line (later Eastern Airlines); (ii) Transcontinental Air Transport (later TWA Trans World Airlines); (iii) Northeast Airlines; and the Boston and Maine Railroad.
Gores great-grandfather Eugen Fidel Vidal was born in Feldkirch, Vorarlberg Feldkirch, Austria, of Romansh people Romansh background, and had come to the U.S. with Gores Swiss great-grandmother, Emma Hartmann.
Vidals mother, Nina Gore, was a high society (group) high society woman who made her Broadway theatre debut as an extra actress in Sign of the Leopard, in 1928.
In 1922, Nina married Eugene Luther Vidal, Sr., and thirteen years later, in 1935, divorced him.
Nina Gore Vidal then was married two more times; to Hugh D. Auchincloss and to Robert Olds. She also had "a long off-and-on affair" with the actor Clark Gable.
As Nina Gore Auchincloss, Vidals mother was an alternate delegate to the 1940 Democratic National Convention.
The subsequent marriages of his mother and father yielded four half-siblings for Gore Vidal – Vance Vidal, Valerie Vidal, Thomas Gore Auchincloss, and Nina Straight Nina Gore Auchincloss – and four step-brothers from his mothers third marriage to Robert Olds, a major general in the United States Army Air Forces (USAAF), who died in 1943, 10 months after marrying Nina.
The nephews of Gore Vidal include Burr Steers, a writer and film director, and Hugh Auchincloss Steers (1963–95), a Figurative art figurative painter.
Raised in Washington, D.C., Vidal attended the Sidwell Friends School and the St. Albans School (Washington, D.C.) St. Albans School. Given the blindness of his maternal grandfather, Senator Thomas Pryor Gore, of Oklahoma, Vidal read aloud to him, and was his United States Senate Page Senate page, and his seeing-eye guide.
In 1939, during his summer holiday, Vidal went with some colleagues and professor from St. Albans School on his first European trip, to visit Italy and France. He visited for the first time Rome, the city which came "at the center of Gores literary imagination", and Paris. When the World War II Second World War began in early September, the group was forced to an early return home; on his way back, he and his colleagues stopped in Great Britain, and they met the U.S. Ambassador to Great Britain, Joe Kennedy (the father of John Fitzgerald Kennedy, later the President of the United States of America).
In 1940 he attended the Los Alamos Ranch School and later transferred to Phillips Exeter Academy, in Exeter, New Hampshire, where he contributed to the Exonian, the school newspaper.
In the article Gore Vidal: Sharpest Tongue in the West, Roy Hattersley said that "for reasons he never explained, he [Vidal] did not go on to Harvard, Yale, or Princeton University Princeton, with other members of his social class."
Rather than attend university, Vidal enlisted in the U.S. Army and worked as an office clerk within the U.S. Army Air Forces USAAF. Later, Vidal passed the examinations necessary to become a maritime warrant officer (junior grade) in the Transportation Corps, and subsequently served as first mate of the F.S. 35th, berthed at Dutch Harbor. After three years in service, Warrant Officer Gene Vidal suffered hypothermia, developed rheumatoid arthritis and, consequently, was reassigned to duty as a mess officer.
{{clear}}

==Career==

===Writer===
The literary works of Gore Vidal were influenced by numerous other writers, poets and playwrights, novelists and essayists. These include, from antiquity: Petronius (d. AD 66), Juvenal (AD 60–140), and Apuleius (Floruit fl. ca. AD 155); and from the post-Renaissance: Thomas Love Peacock (1785–1866) and George Meredith (1828–1909). More recent literary figures by whom his work was influenced include: Marcel Proust (1871–1922), Henry James (1843–1916) and Evelyn Waugh (1903–66).
The cultural critic Harold Bloom has written that Gore Vidal believed that his sexuality had denied him full recognition from the literary community in the United States but Bloom contends that such limited recognition owed more to Vidal writing in the unfashionable, plot-orientated genre of historical fiction, than with whom Vidal shared a pillow.
In 2009, the Man of Letters Gore Vidal was named honorary president of the American Humanist Association.
<!-- dead link -->
====Fiction====

File:GoreVidal2008.jpg thumb Vidal at the Los Angeles Times Festival of Books, 2008
The literary career of Gore Vidal began with the success of the military novel Williwaw (Vidal novel) Williwaw, a men-at-war story derived from his Dutch Harbor Naval Operating Base and Fort Mears, U.S. Army Alaskan Harbor Detachment duty during the World War II Second World War.
His third novel, The City and the Pillar (1948) caused a moralistic furor over his dispassionate presentation of a young protagonist coming to terms with his homosexuality and a male homosexual relationship.
