Gregory Raymond "Greg" Kelly  (born December 17, 1968) is an American News Anchor. He most recently was the co-host of Good Day New York on Fox 5 NY WNYW with Rosanna Scotto. Previously, he was the co-host of Fox and Friends and White House press corps White House correspondent for Fox News. Kelly is also a lieutenant colonel in the Marine Forces Reserve U.S. Marine Corps Reserves.
In November 2017 Kelly married Judith Grey, an Australian creative director.

==Journalist==
In the late 1990s, Kelly was an anchor for the morning news program at American Broadcasting Company ABC affiliate WIVT WIVT-TV in Binghamton, New York, where he secured an exclusive interview with then U.S. President Bill Clinton. Later, Kelly was a political reporter for NY1 in New York City, where he covered the New York City mayoral election, 2001 2001 mayoral campaign, and provided extensive live reports from Ground Zero on September 11, 2001. Kelly joined Fox News soon afterward.

In 2003, during Iraq War Operation Iraqi Freedom, Kelly was an embedded reporter with the United States Armys U.S. 3rd Infantry Division 3rd Infantry Division, 2nd Brigade. He received a minor Shrapnel shell shrapnel wound to the face when a Mortar (weapon) mortar round exploded near him while crossing the Euphrates River with the 3rd Infantry Division on March 31, 2003.

Kelly was the first television journalist to broadcast live pictures of U.S. military forces reaching Baghdad on April 5, 2003. Information Minister Muhammad Said al-Sahhaf, a.k.a. Baghdad Bob, was shown at one of his press conferences saying that Coalition forces were not in Baghdad, Fox News was showing, in split screen, reporter Kelly riding a tank through the city. Two days later, Kelly captured another exclusive during the storming of Saddam Husseins Presidential Palace, Baghdad presidential palace.

His reporting assignments have brought him back to Iraq numerous times, as well as to Gaza City Gaza, Pakistan, the United Arab Emirates, and Kuwait.

Kelly was a host of Good Day New York from 2008 through June 2012 when he was promoted to the 6 and 10 pm news, on Fox 5.
David Price was announced as his replacement. On January 24, 2013, it was announced that Dave Price would be leaving Good Day New York and Kelly would be returning.
On September 28, 2017, Kelly announced he was leaving Good Day New York. It is said he will be replaced by former WABC-TV anchor Lori Stokes. On Friday, September 29, 2017, Greg Kelly carried out the last appearance on Good Day New York with his long-time Co-Host Rosanna Scotto.

==Personal life==
Kelly is a native of Garden City, New York. His father is former New York City Police Commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly. Kelly graduated from Fordham University with a Bachelor of Arts B.A. in political science. While attending Fordham, Kelly worked at WFUV as an on-air reporter.

In January–February 2012 Kelly was investigated by the Manhattan District Attorneys office upon an accusation of rape.
All allegations were dropped
and Kelly returned to work February 13.  

On June 9, 2014, Kellys accuser spoke publicly for the first time about her 2012 allegations against Kelly.
Kelly is married to Judith Gray, a creative director in advertising. They were married on November 12, 2017 at New Yorks University Club.
==Military career==
Kelly is an officer in the Marine Forces Reserve U.S. Marine Corps Reserves.
During his tour of active duty military service between 1991-2000 he was a pilot of a AV-8 Harrier II AV-8B Harrier jump jet assigned to the VMA-211 Marine Attack Squadron 211, the "Battle of Wake Island Wake Island Avengers". While on duty Kelly successfully amassed over 158 aircraft carrier landings and flew over Iraq in Operation Southern Watch, enforcing the United Nations imposed Iraqi no-fly zones No-Fly Zone.
==See also==
{{Portal-inline United States Marine Corps}} {{-}}
