Harrison Ford (born July 13, 1942) is an American actor, director, writer and film producer. He gained worldwide fame for his starring roles as Han Solo in the Star Wars film series and as the Indiana Jones title character of the Indiana Jones (franchise) Indiana Jones film series. Five of his movies are within the 30 top grossing movies of all time at the US box office (when adjusted for inflation)
. Ford is also known for playing Rick Deckard in the neo-noir dystopian science fiction film Blade Runner (1982) and its sequel Blade Runner 2049 (2017); John Book in the thriller Witness (1985 film) Witness (1985), for which he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor; and Jack Ryan (character) Jack Ryan in the action films Patriot Games (film) Patriot Games (1992) and Clear and Present Danger (film) Clear and Present Danger (1994).

His career spans six decades and includes roles in several Hollywood blockbusters; including the epic war film Apocalypse Now (1979); the legal drama Presumed Innocent (film) Presumed Innocent (1990); the action film The Fugitive (1993 film) The Fugitive (1993); the political action thriller Air Force One (film) Air Force One (1997); and the psychological thriller What Lies Beneath (2000). Seven of his films have been inducted into the National Film Registry: American Graffiti (1973), The Conversation (1974), Star Wars (film) Star Wars (1977), Apocalypse Now (1979), The Empire Strikes Back (1980), Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) and Blade Runner (1982).

As of 2016, the U.S. domestic box-office grosses of Fords films total over US$4.7 billion, with worldwide grosses surpassing $6 billion, making Ford the second highest-grossing U.S. domestic box-office star.
Ford is married to actress Calista Flockhart.

==Early life==
Ford was born at the Swedish Covenant Hospital in Chicago, Illinois
to Christopher Ford (born John William Ford), an advertising executive and former actor, and Dorothy (née Nidelman), a former radio actress.
A younger brother, Terence, was born in 1945. His father was Catholic and his mother was Jewish.
Fords paternal grandparents, John Fitzgerald Ford and Florence Veronica Niehaus, were of Irish and German descent, respectively.
Fords maternal grandparents, Harry Nidelman and Anna Lifschutz, were Jewish emigrants from Minsk, Belarus (at that time a part of the Russian Empire).
When asked in which religion he and his brother were raised, Ford jokingly responded, "Democratic Party (United States) Democrat,"
"to be liberals of every stripe".
In a television interview shown in August 2000, when asked about what influence his Irish Catholic and History of the Jews in Russia Russian Jewish ancestry may have had on his life as a person and as an artist, Ford humorously stated, "As a man Ive always felt Irish, as an actor Ive always felt Jewish."
Ford was active in the Boy Scouts of America, and achieved its second-highest rank, Life Scout. He worked at Napowan Adventure Base Scout camp as a counselor for the Reptile Study merit badge. Because of this, he and director Steven Spielberg later decided to depict the young Indiana Jones as a Life Scout in the film Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade.

In 1960, Ford graduated from Maine East High School in Park Ridge, Illinois. His was the first student voice broadcast on his high schools new radio station, WMTH,
