Howard Robard Hughes Jr. (December 24, 1905 – April 5, 1976) was an American business magnate, investor, record-setting pilot, engineer,
film director, and Philanthropy philanthropist, known during his lifetime as one of the most financially successful individuals in the world. He first made a name for himself as a film producer, and then became an influential figure in the aviation industry. Later in life, he became known for his eccentric behavior and reclusive lifestyle—oddities that were caused in part by a worsening obsessive–compulsive disorder (OCD), chronic pain from several plane crashes, and increasing deafness.

As a maverick film tycoon, Hughes gained prominence in Cinema of the United States Hollywood beginning in the late 1920s, when he produced big-budget and often controversial films such as The Racket (1928 film) The Racket (1928),
Hells Angels (film) Hells Angels (1930),
and Scarface (1932 film) Scarface (1932). Later he controlled the RKO Pictures RKO film studio.

Hughes formed the Hughes Aircraft Company in 1932, hiring numerous engineers and designers. He spent the rest of the 1930s and much of the 1940s setting multiple Flight airspeed record world air speed records and building the Hughes H-1 Racer and H-4 Hercules (the Spruce Goose). He acquired and expanded Trans World Airlines and later acquired Hughes Airwest Air West, renaming it Hughes Airwest. Hughes was included in Flying (magazine) Flying Magazines list of the 51 Heroes of Aviation, ranked at {{Abbr No. Number}} 25.
Today, his legacy is maintained through the Howard Hughes Medical Institute and the Howard Hughes Corporation.
==Early years==
File:Howard Hughes as child (4729132038).jpg thumb upright Hughes in April 1912
The birthplace of Howard Hughes is recorded as either Humble, Texas Humble or Houston Houston, Texas. The date remains uncertain due to conflicting dates from various sources. He repeatedly claimed that his birthday was on Christmas Eve. A 1941 affidavit birth certificate of Hughes that was signed by his aunt Annette Gano Lummis and Estelle Boughton Sharp states that he was born on December 24, 1905, in Harris County, Texas.{{#tag:ref No time of birth is listed. Record nr. 234358, of December 29, 1941, filed January 5, 1942, Bureau of Vital Statistics of Texas Department of Health. group=N}} However, his certificate of Infant baptism baptism recorded on October 7, 1906, in the parish register of St. Johns Episcopal Church in Keokuk, Iowa, listed his birth as September 24, 1905 without any reference to the place of birth.{{#tag:ref The handwriting of the baptismal record is a rather trembling one. The clerk was an aged person and there is a chance that, supposedly being hard of hearing, they misheard "December 24" as "September 24" instead. This is speculative. group=N}}

Hughes was the son of Allene Stone Gano and Howard R. Hughes Sr., a successful inventor and businessman from Missouri. He was of English American English, Welsh American Welsh and some French Huguenot, ancestry,
and was a descendant of John Gano, the minister who baptized George Washington.
His father had patented the Well drilling two-cone roller bit, which allowed rotary Oil well#Drilling drilling for petroleum in previously inaccessible places. The senior Hughes made the shrewd and lucrative decision to commercialize the invention by leasing the bits instead of selling them, obtained several early patents, and founded the Hughes Tool Company in 1909. Hughes uncle was the famed novelist, screenwriter, and film director Rupert Hughes.
At a young age, Hughes demonstrated interest in science and technology. In particular, he had great engineering aptitude and built Houstons first "wireless" radio transmitter at age 11.
He went on to be one of the first licensed ham radio operators in Houston, having the assigned callsign W5CY (originally 5CY).
At 12, Hughes was photographed in the local newspaper, identified as being the first boy in Houston to have a "Motorcycle motorized" bicycle, which he had built from parts from his fathers steam engine.
He was an indifferent student, with a liking for mathematics, flying, and mechanics. He took his first flying lesson at 14, and attended Fessenden School in Massachusetts in 1921.

He later attended math and aeronautical engineering courses at Caltech.
