Igor Ivanovich Sikorsky ({{lang-rus  И́горь Ива́нович Сико́рский p=ˈiɡərʲ ɪˈvanəvitʃ sʲɪˈkorskʲɪj a=Ru-Igor Sikorsky.ogg}},
<small>
 Scientific transliteration of Cyrillic tr.
</small>
Ígor Ivánovič Sikórskij;  May 25, 1889 – October 26, 1972),
was a Russian-American
aviation pioneer in both helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft. His first success came with the Sikorsky S-2 S-2, the second aircraft of his design and construction. His fifth airplane, the Sikorsky S-5 S-5, won him national recognition as well as F.A.I. license number 64.
His Sikorsky S-6 S-6-A received the highest award at the 1912 Moscow Aviation Exhibition, and in the fall of that year the aircraft won for its young designer, builder and pilot first prize in the military competition at Saint Petersburg.
After immigrating to the United States in 1919, Sikorsky founded the Sikorsky Aircraft Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation in 1923,
and developed the first of Pan American Airways ocean-conquering flying boats in the 1930s.

In 1939, Sikorsky designed and flew the Vought-Sikorsky VS-300,
the first viable American helicopter, which pioneered the rotor configuration used by most helicopters today.
Sikorsky modified the design into the Sikorsky R-4, which became the worlds first mass-produced helicopter in 1942.

==Early life==
Igor Sikorsky was born in Kiev, Russian Empire (
<!-- Kiev -->
in present-day Ukraine), the youngest of five children. His father, Ivan Alexeevich Sikorsky, was a professor of psychology of Kiev St. Vladimir University, a psychiatrist with an international reputation, and an ardent Russian nationalist.
Igor Sikorsky was an Orthodox Christian.
When questioned regarding his roots, he would answer: "My family is of Russian origin. My grandfather and other ancestors from the time of Peter the Great were Russian Orthodox priests."
Sikorskys mother, Mariya Stefanovna Sikorskaya (née Temryuk-Cherkasova),
was a physician who did not work professionally. She is sometimes called Zinaida Sikorsky. While homeschooling young Igor, she gave him a great love for art, especially in the life and work of Leonardo da Vinci, and the stories of Jules Verne. In 1900, at age 11, he accompanied his father to Germany and through conversations with his father, became interested in natural sciences. After returning home, Sikorsky began to experiment with model flying machines, and by age 12, he had made a small rubber band-powered helicopter.
Sikorsky began studying at the Saint Petersburg Maritime Cadet Corps, in 1903, at the age of 14. In 1906, he determined that his future lay in engineering, so he resigned from the academy, despite his satisfactory standing, and left the Russian Empire to study in Paris. He returned to the Russian Empire in 1907, enrolling at the Mechanical College of the Kiev Polytechnic Institute. After the academic year, Sikorsky again accompanied his father to Germany in the summer of 1908, where he learned of the accomplishments of the Wright brothers Flyer and Ferdinand von Zeppelins dirigible.
Sikorsky later said about this event: "Within twenty-four hours, I decided to change my lifes work. I would study aviation."
By the start of World War I in 1914, Sikorskys airplane research and production business in Kiev was flourishing, and his factory made bombers during the war. After the October Revolution Bolshevik revolution began in 1917, Igor Sikorsky fled his homeland, because the new government threatened to shoot him.
He moved to France where he was offered a contract for the design of a new, more powerful Muromets-type plane. But in November 1918 the war ended and the French government stopped subsidizing military orders, he arrived in the U.S. a few months later in 1919.
==Aircraft designer==
File:Sikorsky I.I. 1914. Karl Bulla.jpg thumb Igor Sikorsky in 1914

With financial backing from his sister Olga, Sikorsky returned to Paris, the center of the aviation world at the time, in 1909. Sikorsky met with aviation pioneers, to ask them questions about aircraft and flying. In May 1909, he returned to Russia and began designing his first helicopter, which he began testing in July 1909. Despite his progress in solving technical problems of control, Sikorsky realized that the aircraft would never fly. He finally disassembled the aircraft in October 1909, after he determined that he could learn nothing more from the design.
<blockquote>
 I had learned enough to recognize that with the existing state of the art, engines, materials, and – most of all – the shortage of money and lack of experience... I would not be able to produce a successful helicopter at that time.
</blockquote>
Sikorskys first aircraft of his own design, the S-1 used a 15 hp Anzani 3-cylinder fan engine in a pusher configuration, that could not lift the aircraft. His second design called the S-2 was powered by a 25 hp Anzani engine in a tractor configuration and first flew on June 3, 1910 at a height of a few feet. On June 30 after some modifications, Sikorsky reached an altitude of "sixty or eighty feet" before the S-2 stalled and was completely destroyed when it crashed in a ravine.
Later, Sikorsky built the two-seat Sikorsky S-5 S-5, his first design not based on other European aircraft. Flying this original aircraft, Sikorsky earned his pilot license; Fédération Aéronautique Internationale (FAI) license No. 64 issued by the Imperial Aero Club of Russia in 1911.
During a demonstration of the S-5, the engine quit and Sikorsky was forced to make a crash landing to avoid a wall. It was discovered that a mosquito in the gasoline had been drawn into the carburetor, starving the engine of fuel. The close call convinced Sikorsky of the need for an aircraft that could continue flying if it lost an engine.
His next aircraft, the S-6 held three passengers and was selected as the winner of the Moscow aircraft exhibition held by the Imperial Russian Army Russian Army in February 1912.
File:Sikorsky-LeGrand.jpg thumb left Sikorsky Bolshoi Baltisky of 1913, before receiving its pair of pusher engines
In early 1912, Igor Sikorsky became Chief Engineer of the aircraft division for the Russo-Balt Russian Baltic Railroad Car Works (Russko-Baltiisky Vagonny Zavod or R-BVZ)
in Saint Petersburg.
His work at R-BVZ included the construction of the first four-inline engine (aviation) engine aircraft, the S-21 Sikorsky Russky Vityaz Russky Vityaz, which he initially called Le Grand when fitted with just two engines, then as the Bolshoi Baltisky (The Great Baltic) when fitted with four engines for the first time, each wing panels pair of powerplants in a "push-pull" tandem configuration previous to the four tractor configuration tractor-engined Russki Vityaz.
He also served as the test pilot for its first flight on May 13, 1913.
In recognition for his accomplishment, he was awarded an honorary degree in engineering from Saint Petersburg Polytechnical Institute in 1914. Sikorsky took the experience from building the Russky Vityaz to develop the S-22 Sikorsky Ilya Muromets Ilya Muromets airliner. Due to outbreak of World War I, he redesigned it as the worlds first four-engined bomber, for which he was decorated with the Order of St. Vladimir.

After World War I, Igor Sikorsky briefly became an engineer for the French forces in Russia, during the Russian Civil War.
Seeing little opportunity for himself as an aircraft designer in war-torn Europe, and particularly Russia, ravaged by the October Revolution and Civil War, he immigrated to the United States, arriving in New York on March 30, 1919.
===List of aircraft designed by Sikorsky===
File:Bulla Vityaz.jpg thumb Russian aviators Sikorsky, Genner and Kaulbars aboard a "Sikorsky Russky Vityaz Russky Vityaz", c. 1913

* S-6 – three-passenger plane – 1912
* Sikorsky Russky Vityaz S-21 Russky Vityaz four-engine biplane – 1913
* Sikorsky Ilya Muromets S-22 Ilya Muromets four-engine biplane – 1913
* Sikorsky S-29 S-29 twin-engine biplane - 1924
* Sikorsky S-42 S-42 Clipper – flying boat – 1934
* Vought-Sikorsky VS-300 VS-300 experimental prototype helicopter – 1939
* VS-44 VS-44 Excambian flying boat – 1942
* Sikorsky R-4 R-4 worlds first production helicopter – 1942

==Life in the United States==
File:Sikorsky S42 (crop).jpg thumb Sikorsky S-42 flying boat 
File:Sikorsky Skycrane carrying house bw.jpg thumb Sikorsky Skycrane carrying a house

In the U.S., Sikorsky first worked as a school teacher and a lecturer, while looking for an opportunity to work in the aviation industry. In 1932, he joined the faculty of the University of Rhode Island to form an aeronautical engineering program and remained with the university until 1948.
He also lectured at the University of Bridgeport.

In 1923, Sikorsky formed the Sikorsky Aircraft Sikorsky Manufacturing Company in Roosevelt, New York.
He was helped by several former Russian military officers. Among Sikorskys chief supporters was composer Sergei Rachmaninoff, who introduced himself by writing a check for US$5,000 (approximately $61,000 in 2007).
Although his prototype was damaged in its first test flight, Sikorsky persuaded his reluctant backers to invest another $2,500. With the additional funds, he produced the Sikorsky S-29 S-29, one of the first twin-engine aircraft in America, with a capacity for 14 passengers and a speed of 115 mph.
The performance of the S-29, slow compared to military aircraft of 1918, proved to be a "make or break" moment for Sikorskys funding.{{cn date=May 2018}}

In 1928, Sikorsky became a naturalized citizen of the United States. The Sikorsky Manufacturing Company moved to Stratford, Connecticut in 1929. It became a part of the United Aircraft and Transport Corporation (now United Technologies Corporation) in July of that year.
The company manufactured flying boats, such as the Sikorsky S-42 S-42 "Clipper", used by Pan American World Airways Pan Am for transatlantic flights.
