Jean-Pierre [François] Blanchard (4 July 1753 – 7 March 1809) was a France French inventor,  best known as a pioneer in balloon (aircraft) balloon flight.

==Biography==
Blanchard made his first successful balloon flight in Paris on 2 March 1784, in a hydrogen gas balloon launched from the Champ de Mars. The first successful manned balloon flight had taken place on 21 November 1783, when Pilâtre de Rozier and the Marquis dArlandes took off at Palace of Versailles in a free-flying hot air balloon constructed by the Montgolfier brothers. The first manned hydrogen balloon flight had taken place on 1 December 1783, when Professor Jacques Charles and Robert brothers Nicolas-Louis Robert launched Robert brothers#First manned hydrogen balloon flight La Charlière from the Tuileries Palace Jardin des Tuileries in Paris. Blanchards flight nearly ended in disaster, when one spectator (Dupont de Chambon, a contemporary of Napoleon at the École militaire de Brienne) slashed at the balloons mooring ropes and oars with his sword after being refused a place on board. Blanchard intended to "row" northeast to La Villette, Seine La Villette but the balloon was pushed by the wind across the Seine to Boulogne-Billancourt Billancourt and back again, landing in the rue de Sèvres. Blanchard adopted the Latin tag Sic itur ad astra as his motto.

The early balloon flights triggered a phase of public "balloonomania", with all manner of objects decorated with images of balloons or styled au ballon, from ceramics to fans and hats. Clothing au ballon was produced with exaggerated puffed sleeves and rounded skirts, or with printed images of balloons. Hair was coiffed à la montgolfier, au globe volant, au demi-ballon, or à la Blanchard.
Blanchard moved to London in August 1784, where he took part in a flight on 16 October 1784 with John Sheldon (anatomist) John Sheldon, just a few weeks after the first flight in Britain (and the first outside France), when Italian Vincenzo Lunardi flew from Moorfields to Ware, Hertfordshire Ware on 15 September 1784. Blanchards propulsion mechanisms – flapping wings and a windmill – again proved ineffective, but the balloon flew some 115 km from the military academy in Chelsea, London Chelsea, landing in Sunbury-on-Thames Sunbury and then taking off again to end in Romsey. Blanchard took a second flight on 30 November 1784, taking off with an American, Dr John Jeffries, from the wikt:rhedarium Rhedarium behind Green Street, Mayfair Green Street
Mayfair Mayfair, London to Ingress, Kent Ingress in Kent.

A third flight, again with Jeffries, was the first flight over the English Channel, taking about 2½ hours to travel from England to France on 7 January 1785,
flying from Dover Castle to Guînes. Blanchard was awarded a substantial pension by Louis XVI. The King ordered the balloon and boat be hung up in the church of Église Notre-Dame de Calais.
(A subsequent Channel crossing attempt in the opposite direction by Pilâtre de Rozier on 15 June 1785 ended unsuccessfully in a fatal crash.){{sfn  Holmes  2008  pp=148−155}}

Blanchard toured Europe, demonstrating his balloons. He holds the record of first balloon flights in Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands, and Poland. Among the events that included demonstrations of his abilities as a balloonist was the coronation of Holy Roman Emperor Leopold II, Holy Roman Emperor Leopold II as King of Bohemia in Prague in September 1791.

Following the invention of the modern parachute in 1783 by Sébastien Lenormand in France, in 1785 Jean-Pierre Blanchard demonstrated it as a means of jumping safely from a hot air balloon. While Blanchards first parachute demonstrations were conducted with a dog as the passenger, he later had the opportunity to try it himself when in 1793 his hot air balloon ruptured and he used a parachute to escape. Subsequent development of the parachute focussed on making it more compact. While the early parachutes were made of linen stretched over a wooden frame, in the late 1790s, Blanchard began making parachutes from folded silk, taking advantage of silks strength and light weight.

On 9 January 1793, Blanchard conducted the first balloon flight in the Americas.
He launched his balloon from the prison yard of Walnut Street Jail in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and landed in Deptford Township, New Jersey Deptford, Gloucester County, New Jersey Gloucester County, New Jersey. One of the flights witnesses that day was President George Washington, and the future presidents John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and James Monroe were also present. Blanchard left the United States in 1797.

He married Marie Madeleine-Sophie Armant (better known as Sophie Blanchard) in 1804. On 20 February 1808 Blanchard had a heart attack while in his balloon at the Hague. He fell from his balloon and died roughly a year later (7 March 1809) from his severe injuries. His widow continued to support herself with ballooning demonstrations until it also killed her.

== Pictures ==
<gallery>
 Image:Early flight 02562u (7).jpg Crossing of the English Channel by Blanchard and Jeffries on 7 January 1785.
Image:BlanchardChannelFlight.jpg Crossing of the English Channel by Blanchard in 1785.
File:Goal in Walnut Street Philadelphia Birchs views plate 24 (cropped).jpg Walnut Street Jail, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Blanchard launched his 9 January 1793 American flight from the prison yard.
File:La 14e expérience aérostatique de Monsieur Blanchard accompagné du Chevalier Lépinard, Lille, 26 août 1785.jpg La 14e expérience aérostatique de Monsieur Blanchard accompagné du Chevalier Lépinard, Lille, 26 août 1785, painting by Louis Joseph Watteau
File:Blanchard Crossing English Channel.jpg Blanchard and Jeffries Crossing the English Channel in 1785
</gallery>
==See also==
* List of firsts in aviation
* Timeline of hydrogen technologies
* Blood chit- Originated in 1793, from George Washingtons letter to Jean-Pierre Blanchard.

==Notes==
{{Reflist}}
