Jean Gardner Batten, Order of British Empire CBE, Order of the Southern Cross OSC (15 September 1909 – 22 November 1982) was a New Zealand Pilot (aeronautics) aviatrix. Born in Rotorua, she became the best-known New Zealander of the 1930s, internationally, by making a number of record-breaking solo flights across the world. She made the first-ever solo flight from England to New Zealand in 1936.

==Early life==
Jane Batten (named "Jane" at birth, her name soon metamorphosed into "Jean")
was born to Frederick Batten, a dental surgeon, and Nellie (Ellen) Batten Blackmore
(who would become her strong supporter in her choice of a pilot career). She had two older brothers.
In 1913 the family moved to Auckland. In 1924 Batten was enrolled into a girls boarding college in Remuera in Auckland where she studied ballet and piano. Though she was a gifted pianist, at age 18 she determined to become a pilot after the Australian pilot Charles Kingsford Smith took her for a flight in his Southern Cross (aircraft) Southern Cross airplane.

==Early flying==
In 1929, she and her mother moved to England, to join the London Aeroplane Club. She took her first solo flight in 1930 and gained private and commercial licences by 1932,  borrowing £500 from Fred Truman, a New Zealand pilot serving in the Royal Air Force who wanted to marry her, to fund the 100 hours flying time required. After completing her "B" license in December 1932, she left Truman and turned to Victor Dorée, who borrowed £400 from his mother to buy Batten a de Havilland DH.60 Moth Gipsy Moth biplane. According to NZ History Online, "Raising money by taking advantage of her relationships with men was a theme that continued throughout her flying career."
Batten made two unsuccessful attempts to beat Amy Johnsons time to Australia. In April 1933 she hit two sandstorms before the engine failed, and wrecked the aircraft. She crash-landed near Karachi. Returning to London she could not persuade Dorée to buy her another aircraft, so she turned to the Castrol oil company, which bought her a second-hand Gipsy Moth for £240. She made another attempt in April 1934, but ran out of fuel at night on the outskirts of Rome. Crashing into a maze of radio masts, she nearly severed her lip. The plane was repaired and she flew it back to London, where she borrowed the lower wings from the aircraft of her fiancé, stockbroker Edward Walter, for a third attempt.
==Breaking records==
In May 1934, Batten successfully flew solo from England to Australia in the Gipsy Moth. Her trip of 14 days and 22 hours beat the existing England-to-Australia record of English aviatrix Amy Johnson by over four days.
For this achievement and for subsequent record-breaking flights, she was awarded the Harmon Trophy three times (1935, 1936, 1937). She also received an endorsement contract with Castrol oil. Battens book about her trip, Solo Flight, was published by Jackson and OSullivan Ltd in 1934. Batten took a boat to New Zealand with the Gipsy Moth (which could not have flown across the Tasman Sea) and made a six-week aerial tour there before returning to England.
File:Percival P.3 Gull Six G-ADPR Baginton 19.06.54 edited-2.jpg thumb right Battens record-breaking Percival Gull Six named Jean on its engine cowling at a 1954 UK air show

After her first Australia flight Batten bought a Percival Gull Percival Gull Six monoplane, G-ADPR, which was named Jean. In 1935 she set a world record flying from England to Brazil in the Percival Gull, for which she was presented the Order of the Southern Cross, the first person other than Royalty to be so honoured.
In 1936 she set another world record with a solo flight from England to New Zealand. At her birthplace of Rotorua she was honored by local Māori people Māori, as she had been after the 1934 journey. She was given a chief’s feather cloak and given the title Hine-o-te-Rangi and Papa Rangi – "Daughter of the Skies".

Because of her striking looks, her glamorous appearance at receptions (she always took a white silk dress with her on her record-breaking flights, and repaired her lipstick before exiting her aircraft), and her later reclusive ways, Batten became known as the "Greta Garbo Garbo of the skies".{{source? date=October 2016}}

==Honours==
Batten was created Order of the British Empire Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in 1936, and she was also given the Cross of Chevalier of the French Légion dhonneur Legion of Honour that year. Also in 1936, for the second successive year, Batten was again awarded the Royal Aero Clubs Britannia Trophy for most meritorious performance in aviation during the previous year.

In 1938 she was awarded the medal of the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale, aviations highest honour; she was the first woman to receive the medal.  Throughout the 1930s she was very social and made many friends with other aviators internationally, as she described in her autobiography.

==Life after flying exploits==
File:Jean Batten and her Percival Gull.jpg thumb Jean Batten and her Percival Gull
World War II ended Battens flying adventures. Her Gull was commissioned to active service and Batten was not permitted to fly it. During the war she was involved in campaigns giving lectures in England to raise money for guns and aeroplanes, but her flying days were over. After the war she retired from public life except for a few anniversary appearances.
File:Jean Batten, aviadora neozelandesa. Fundo.tif thumb Jean Batten and her airplane.
Batten became a recluse and lived in several places around the world with her mother until her mothers death in 1965. In 1977 she was guest of honour at the opening of the Aviation Pioneers Pavilion at Aucklands Museum of Transport and Technology, after which she returned to her home in Spain.
In 1982 she was bitten by a dog on the island of Majorca. She refused treatment and the wound became infected.
She died alone in a hotel on Majorca, from complications from the dog bite, and was buried on 22 January 1983. She was buried under her middle name, Gardner, in a paupers grave in Majorca in 1983 – she had been there for only a week and her identity unknown – which was not discovered until five years later.
Thus the world, and her relatives, did not learn of her passing until September 1987.
Battens autobiography, My Life, was published by George G. Harrap in 1938 and is available online at the New Zealand Electronic Text Centre, part of the Victoria University of Wellington Library. An extended version was printed under the title Alone in the Sky by N.Z. Technical books in 1979.  In October 2008 a musical, Garbo of the Skies written by Paul Andersen-Gardiner and Rebekah Hornblow had its inaugural performance in Opunake by the Opunake Players at the Lakeside Playhouse. It was based on Ian Mackerseys biography.

==Legacy==
File:Jean Battens Percival Gull.jpg thumb right Battens Percival Gull on display at the Jean Batten Terminal at Auckland Airport
File:Jean Batten.jpg thumb right Memorial panels to Batten at Rotorua Airport
File:BattenAucklandAirport2010.JPG thumb right Statue of Jean Batten at Auckland Airport

House system Houses in Macleans College, Howick Intermediate, Pukekohe Intermediate School, Westlake Girls High School, Southland Girls High School, Forrest Hill School, Tauranga Girls College and Wellington Girls College are named after her, as is Batten (Blue) House at Orewa College and in the whanau system of Aorere College in South Auckland. A primary school in Mangere is named after her as are streets in Auckland, Christchurch, Mount Maunganui, Wellington, Wallington, London Wallington and in her birthplace of Rotorua. The historic Jean Batten building on the corner of Fort and Shortland streets in Auckland has been incorporated into the new Bank of New Zealand head office building, and the Auckland Airport International Terminal is named after her. The Percival Gull G-ADPR in which she made the first solo trip from England to New Zealand in 1936 and many other record-breaking trips now hangs in the Jean Batten International Terminal.

A bronze sculpture of Batten is located in the main terminal of Rotorua Regional Airport and memorial panels are installed in the building. A small park in the middle of Rotorua city is named after her.

In September 2009, a Qantas Boeing 737 ZK-ZQA, the first International configuration plane of its type and Qantass 75th 737 was named after Batten.
Also in September 2009, a street in the area of Palma where Batten died was renamed Carrer de Jean Batten, or Jean Batten St.
During the 1980s Britannia operated 737–200 G-BGYL, named Jean Batten.

In 2016, Google Doodle commemorated her 107th birthday.
== Major flights ==
*1934 – England–Australia (womens record) {{convert 10,500 mi km order=flip}} in 14 days 22 hours 30 minutes, breaking Amy Johnson Amy Johnsons record by over four days.
*1935 – Australia–England in 17 days 15 hours.  First woman ever to make a return flight.
*1935 – England–Brazil: {{convert 5000 mi km order=flip abbr=on}} in 61 hours 15 minutes, setting world record for any type of aeroplane. Also fastest crossing South Atlantic Ocean, {{frac 13 1 4}} hours, and first woman to make England–South America flight.
*1936 – England–New Zealand. World record for any type. {{convert 14,224 mi km order=flip abbr=on}} in 11 days 45 minutes total elapsed time, including {{frac 2 1 2}} days in Sydney.
*1937 – Australia–England. Last long-distance flight. 5 days 18 hours, giving her solo records in both directions.
==List of honours==
* File:Order of the British Empire (Civil) Ribbon.png 90px Order of the British Empire Commander of the Order of the British Empire (Great Britain)
* File:Order of the Southern Cross Officer (Brazil) Ribbon.png 90px Order of the Southern Cross Officer of the Order of the Southern Cross (Brazil)
* File:Legion Honneur Chevalier ribbon.svg 90px Légion dHonneur Chevalier de la Légion dHonneur (France)
* File:GeorgeVICoronationRibbon.png 90px King George VI Coronation Medal

==Bibliography==
*Batten, Jean, Solo Flight, Jackson and OSullivan Ltd., 1934.
*Batten Jean, [http://www.nzetc.org/tm/scholarly/tei-BatMyL.html My Life], George G. Harrap and Company Limited, 1938.
*Batten, Jean, Alone In The Sky, N.Z. Technical books, 1979 (an extended version of her book My Life, originally published in 1938).
*Mackersey, Ian, [http://www.nzjh.auckland.ac.nz/docs/1993/NZJH_27_2_19.pdf Jean Batten: The Garbo of the Skies] [PDF], Warner Books, 1992.
