Jeana Lee Yeager is an American aviator.  She co-piloted, along with Dick Rutan, the first non-stop, non-refueled flight around the world in the Rutan Voyager aircraft from  December 14 to 23, 1986.
The flight took 9 days, 3 minutes, and 44 seconds and covered 24,986 miles (40,211 km), more than doubling the old Flight distance record distance record set by a Boeing B-52 bomber in 1962.

==Early life and career==
Jeana Lee Yeager was born on May 18, 1952, in Fort Worth, Texas, moving with her family to Garland, Texas; Oxnard, California; and Commerce, Texas.  She is not related to aviator Chuck Yeager.
Following graduation from high school, Yeager, at age 19, married a police officer. But, the couple divorced after five years of marriage.
She worked as a draftsman and surveyor for a geothermal energy company in Santa Rosa, California. In 1978, she obtained her private pilots license while still living in Santa Rosa.
Jeana went to work for Robert Truax who was developing a reusable spacecraft. She met Dick Rutan in 1980 and they soon both set distance records in the Rutan VariEze and Rutan Long-EZ Long-EZ planes, designed by Dicks brother Burt Rutan. In early 1982, Jeana set a new womens speed record for the 2,000-kilometer closed course and in the fall of 1984 using the VariEze, she set the open-distance record of 2,427.1 statute miles.
==Round-the-world flight==
File:VoyagerAircraftAtNASM-common.jpg right  250 px thumb The Rutan Voyager
Jeana and Dick Rutan decided to attempt to fly around the world without refueling. They formed Voyager Aircraft, Inc., and Burt Rutan began designing the aircraft. Initially unable to find a commercial sponsor, Jeana started the Voyager Impressive People (VIP) program which became the major source of money to build, test, and fly the aircraft. By mid-1986, Voyager was ready for the flight. She flew as copilot on the 216-hour flight and set a worlds absolute distance record. And, it was the first time a woman had been listed in an absolute category.

==Awards==
In recognition of the Voyager flight, she received the Harmon Trophy, the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale FAI De la Vaulx Medal, the Presidential Citizens Medal from President Ronald Reagan (1986) and is the first woman to have received the Collier Trophy--receiving the latter two honors along with Dick and Burt Rutan.  She was also awarded the Edward Longstreth Medal from the Franklin Institute in 1988.
