Jessica Cox (born 1983 in Arizona) is the worlds first licensed armless pilot, as well as the first armless Black belt (martial arts) black-belt in the American Taekwondo Association.
She was born without arms due to a rare birth defect.
==Early life==
Jessica Cox graduated from the University of Arizona in 2005 with a bachelors degree in psychology and a minor in communications.
Cox has not used prosthetic arms since she turned 14.
Using her feet as most people use their hands, she is able, among other things, to drive an unmodified car with an unrestricted Drivers license license, to type on a Computer keyboard keyboard at 25 words per minute, to pump her own gas, and to put in and remove her contact lenses.
She is also a certified Scuba diving SCUBA diver.
== Career ==
Jessica Cox flew in a single engine airplane for the first time via Wright Flight in 2005. Jessica earned her pilots certificate on October 10, 2008, after three years of training, and is qualified to fly a light-sport aircraft to altitudes of 10,000 feet. She received her flight training through an Able Flight scholarship and soloed under the instruction of Parrish Traweek.
Coxs Sport Pilot Certificate is for an ERCO Ercoupe ERCO 415-C Ercoupe which the Federal Aviation Administration has designated a light sport aircraft. Designed in the 1940s, the Ercoupe was built without rudder pedals. Instead, the rudder is interconnected with the ailerons through the Yoke (aeronautics) yoke. This unique design allows Cox to control the airplane with one foot controlling the yoke while the other foot controls the throttle.
At the age of 10, Cox began training in taekwondo at a school in her home town of Sierra Vista.
At the age of 14, she earned her first black belt.
While in college at the University of Arizona Cox restarted her taekwondo training at an American Taekwondo Association club on campus. In an effort to help future students without the use of arms the instructors created an entire training curriculum by modifying the standard material from the American Taekwondo Association ATA.
For example, instead of a punch Cox executes a knee strike.
Cox has since gone on to earn her second and third degree black belts in the American Taekwondo Association ATA. Cox has also earned the title of 2014 Arizona State Champion in forms. It should be noted that she did not compete in a special abilities ring.
Cox works as a Motivational speaking motivational speaker and has shared her message in 20 different countries.
In 2014 Cox competed in the 40 mile segment of El Tour de Tucson.
In 2015 Cox published an autobiographical self-help book, Disarm Your Limits.
in order to inspire people to overcome their own challenges through the lessons she has learned in her life.
==Media influence==
Cox is the subject of the documentary Right Footed.
The film is directed by Emmy Award winning filmmaker Nick T. Spark Nick Spark.
The documentary chronicles Cox life, mentorship, humanitarian trips to Ethiopia and the Philippines, as well as her efforts to pass the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities CRPD in the US United States Senate Senate.
The patented invention of a "Lower Extremity Vehicle Navigation Control System", which allows people to drive a car without the use of their upper body, by the Emirati engineer Reem Al Marzouqi was inspired by Cox.
==See also==
* Stephen Hawking, theoretical physicist, cosmologist and survivor of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS.
* Patrick Henry Hughes, musician born Blindness blind and unable to fully utilize his Limb (anatomy) limbs.
* Hirotada Ototake, sports writer and survivor of Tetra-amelia syndrome.
* Mile Stojkoski, humanitarian and wheelchair ultramarathon runner.
* Nick Vujicic, Motivational speaking motivational speaker and survivor of Tetra-amelia syndrome.
