John Forbes Kerry (born December 11, 1943) is an American politician who served as the List of Secretaries of State of the United States 68th United States Secretary of State from 2013 to 2017. A member of the Democratic Party (United States) Democratic Party, Kerry previously represented Massachusetts in the United States Senate from 1985 to 2013. He was the Democratic nominee in the United States presidential election, 2004 2004 presidential election, losing to Republican Party (United States) Republican incumbent George W. Bush.

Kerry was born in Aurora, Colorado and attended boarding school in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. He graduated from Yale University in 1966 with a major in political science. Kerry enlisted in the United States Naval Reserve Naval Reserve in 1966, and between 1968 and 1969, he served an abbreviated four-month tour of duty in South Vietnam as Duty officer officer-in-charge (OIC) of a Patrol Craft Fast Swift Boat. For that service, he was awarded combat medals that include the Silver Star Medal, Bronze Star Medal and three Purple Heart Medals. Securing an early return to the United States, Kerry joined the Vietnam Veterans Against the War organization in which he served as a nationally recognized spokesman and as an outspoken Opposition to United States involvement in the Vietnam War opponent of the Vietnam War. He appeared in the Fulbright Hearings before the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs where he deemed United States war policy in Vietnam to be the cause of war crimes.

After receiving a Juris Doctor from Boston College Law School, Kerry worked as an Assistant District Attorney in Massachusetts. He served as Lieutenant Governor of Massachusetts Lieutenant Governor under Michael Dukakis from 1983 to 1985 and was elected to the U.S. Senate in United States Senate election in Massachusetts, 1984 1984 and was sworn in the following January. On the United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations Senate Foreign Relations Committee, he led a Kerry Committee report series of hearings from 1987 to 1989 which were a precursor to the Iran–Contra affair. Kerry was reelected to additional terms in United States Senate election in Massachusetts, 1990 1990, United States Senate election in Massachusetts, 1996 1996, United States Senate election in Massachusetts, 2002 2002 and United States Senate election in Massachusetts, 2008 2008. On October 11, 2002, Kerry voted to authorize the President "to use force, if necessary, to disarm Saddam Hussein," but warned that the administration should exhaust its diplomatic avenues before launching war.
In his United States presidential election, 2004 2004 presidential campaign, Kerry criticized George W. Bush for the Iraq War. He and his running mate, U.S. Senator from North Carolina John Edwards, lost the election, finishing 35 Electoral College (United States) electoral votes behind Bush and Vice President of the United States Vice President Dick Cheney. Kerry returned to the Senate, becoming Chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship in 2007 and then of the Foreign Relations Committee in 2009. In January 2013, Kerry was nominated by President Barack Obama to succeed outgoing Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and then confirmed by the U.S. Senate, assuming the office on February 1, 2013. Kerry retained the position until the end of Obamas tenure on Inauguration of Donald Trump January 20, 2017.

==Early life and education (1943–1966)==
John Forbes Kerry was born on December 11, 1943 at Fitzsimons Army Medical Center in Aurora, Colorado. He is the second of four children born to Richard John Kerry, a Foreign Service officer and lawyer, and Rosemary Forbes Kerry Rosemary Isabel Forbes, a nurse and social activist. His father was raised Catholic (Johns paternal grandparents were Austro-Hungarian Jews Jewish immigrants who converted to Catholicism) and his mother was Episcopal Church (United States) Episcopalian. He was raised with an elder sister named Margaret, a younger sister named Diana, and a younger brother named Cameron Kerry Cameron. The children were raised in their fathers Catholic faith, and John served as an altar server altar boy.
Kerry grew up a military brat
until his father was discharged from the United States Army Air Corps Army Air Corps, causing the family to settle in Washington, D.C. in 1949.
While in Washington, Richard took a spot in the Department of the Navys Office of General Counsel and soon became a diplomat in the State Departments Bureau of United Nations Affairs.
His maternal extended family enjoyed great wealth as members of the Forbes family Forbes and Dudley–Winthrop family Dudley–Winthrop families.
Kerrys parents themselves were upper-middle class, and a wealthy great aunt great-aunt paid for him to attend elite boarding schools.
In 1957, his father was stationed at the U.S. Embassy in Oslo, Norway, and Kerry was sent back to the United States to attend boarding school. He first attended the Fessenden School in Newton, Massachusetts, and later St. Pauls, Concord, New Hampshire, where he learned skills in public speaking and began developing an interest in politics.
Kerry founded the John Winant Society at St. Pauls to debate the issues of the day; the Society still exists there.
File:KN-C23433-JFK with wife Jackie and John Kerry among others.jpg thumb A young John Kerry (in white) aboard the yacht of John F. Kennedy, in 1962
In 1962, Kerry entered Yale University, majoring in political science and residing in Jonathan Edwards College.
{{rp 35}} While at Yale, Kerry briefly dated Janet Auchincloss Rutherfurd Janet Auchincloss, the younger half-sister of First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy. Through Auchincloss, Kerry was invited to a day of sailing with then-President John F. Kennedy and his family.
Kerry played on the varsity Yale Bulldogs Mens soccer team, earning his only letter in his senior year. He also played freshman and JV Yale Bulldogs mens ice hockey hockey and, in his senior year, JV Yale Bulldogs mens lacrosse lacrosse.
In addition, he was a member of the Psi Upsilon fraternity and took flying lessons.
{{rp 37, 43}}
In his sophomore year, Kerry became the Chairman of the Liberal Party of the Yale Political Union, and a year later he served as President of the Union. Amongst his influential teachers in this period was Professor H. Bradford Westerfield, who was himself a former President of the Political Union.
His involvement with the Political Union gave him an opportunity to be involved with important issues of the day, such as the civil rights movement and the New Frontier program. He also became a List of Skull and Bones members member of Skull and Bones Skull and Bones Society, and traveled to Switzerland
through AIESEC Yale.
Under the guidance of the speaking coach and history professor Rollin G. Osterweis, Kerry won many debates against other college students from across the nation.
In March 1965, as the Vietnam War escalated, he won the Ten Eyck prize as the best orator in the junior class for a speech that was critical of U.S. foreign policy. In the speech he said, "It is the spectre of Western imperialism that causes more fear among Africans and Asians than communism and thus, it is self-defeating."
Kerry graduated from Yale with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1966. Overall, he had lackluster Grading (education) grades, graduating with a cumulative average of 76 over his four years. His freshman-year average was a 71, but he improved to an 81 average for his senior year. He never received an "A" during his time at Yale; his highest grade was an 89.
==Military service (1966–1970)==
{{Main Military career of John Kerry}}

===Duty on the USS Gridley===
On February 18, 1966, Kerry enlisted in the Naval Reserve.
He began his active duty military service on August 19, 1966. After completing 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School at the U.S. Naval Training Center in Newport, Rhode Island, Kerry received his officers commission on December 16, 1966. During the 2004 election, Kerry posted his military records at his website, and permitted reporters to inspect his medical records. In 2005, Kerry released his military and medical records to the representatives of three news organizations, but has not authorized full public access to those records.
During his tour on the guided missile frigate {{USS Gridley DLG-21 6}}, Kerry requested duty in South Vietnam, listing as his first preference a position as the commander of a Fast Patrol Craft (PCF), also known as a "Swift boat."
These {{convert 50 ft m adj=on}} boats have aluminum hull (watercraft) hulls and have little or no armor, but are heavily armed and rely on speed. "I didnt really want to get involved in the war", Kerry said in a book of Vietnam reminiscences published in 1986. "When I signed up for the swift boats, they had very little to do with the war. They were engaged in coastal patrolling and thats what I thought I was going to be doing."
However, his second choice of billet was on a river patrol boat, or "Patrol boat, rigid PBR", which at the time was serving a more dangerous duty on the rivers of Vietnam.
===Military honors===
During the night of December 2 and early morning of December 3, 1968, Kerry was in charge of a small boat operating near a peninsula north of Cam Ranh Bay together with a Swift boat (PCF-60). According to Kerry and the two crewmen who accompanied him that night, Patrick Runyon and William Zaladonis, they surprised a group of Vietnamese men unloading sampans at a river crossing, who began running and failed to obey an order to stop. As the men fled, Kerry and his crew opened fire on the sampans and destroyed them, then rapidly left. During this encounter, Kerry received a shrapnel wound in the left arm above the elbow. It was for this injury that Kerry received his first Purple Heart Purple Heart Medal.
Kerry received his second Purple Heart for a wound received in action on the Bồ Đề River on February 20, 1969. The plan had been for the Swift boats to be accompanied by support helicopters. On the way up the Bo De, however, the helicopters were attacked. As the Swift boats reached the Cửa Lớn River, Kerrys boat was hit by a RPG-2 B-40 rocket (rocket propelled grenade round), and a piece of shrapnel shell shrapnel hit Kerrys left leg, wounding him. Thereafter, enemy fire ceased and his boat reached the Gulf of Thailand safely. Kerry continues to have shrapnel embedded in his left thigh because the doctors that first treated him decided to remove the damaged tissue and close the wound with surgical suture sutures rather than make a wide opening to remove the shrapnel.
Though wounded like several others earlier that day, Kerry did not lose any time off from duty.
====Silver Star====
Eight days later, on February 28, 1969, came the events for which Kerry was awarded his Silver Star Medal. On this occasion, Kerry was in tactical command of his Swift boat and two other Swift boats during a combat operation. Their mission on the Duong Keo River included bringing an underwater demolition team and dozens of South Vietnamese Marines to destroy enemy sampans, structures and bunkers as described in the story The Death Of PCF 43.
Running into heavy small arms fire from the river banks, Kerry "directed the units to turn to the beach and charge the Viet Cong positions" and he "expertly directed" his boats fire causing the enemy to flee while at the same time coordinating the insertion of the ninety South Vietnamese troops (according to the original medal citation signed by Admiral Zumwalt). Moving a short distance upstream, Kerrys boat was the target of a B-40 rocket round; Kerry charged the enemy positions and as his boat Heaving to hove to and Beaching (nautical) beached, a Viet Cong ("VC") insurgent armed with a rocket launcher emerged from a spider hole and ran. While the boats gunner opened fire, wounding the VC in the leg, and while the other boats approached and offered cover fire, Kerry jumped from the boat to pursue the VC insurgent, subsequently killing him and capturing his loaded rocket launcher.
Kerrys commanding officer, Lieutenant Commander George Elliott, stated to Douglas Brinkley in 2003 that he did not know whether to court-martial Kerry for beaching the boat without orders or give him a medal for saving the crew. Elliott recommended Kerry for the Silver Star, and Zumwalt flew into An Thoi to personally award medals to Kerry and the rest of the sailors involved in the mission. The Navys account of Kerrys actions is presented in the original s:Silver Star Citation - John Kerry medal citation signed by Zumwalt. The engagement was documented in an after-action report, a press release written on March 1, 1969, and a historical summary dated March 17, 1969.
====Bronze Star====
On March 13, 1969, on the Bái Háp River, Kerry was in charge of one of five Swift boats that were returning to their base after performing an Operation Sealords mission to transport South Vietnamese troops from the garrison at Cái Nước and MIKE Force advisors for a raid on a Vietcong camp located on the Rach Dong Cung canal. Earlier in the day, Kerry received a slight shrapnel wound in the buttocks from blowing up a rice bunker. Debarking some but not all of the passengers at a small village, the boats approached a fishing weir; one group of boats went around to the left of the weir, hugging the shore, and a group with Kerrys PCF-94 boat went around to the right, along the shoreline. A mine was detonated directly beneath the lead boat, PCF-3, as it crossed the weir to the left, lifting PCF-3 "about 2-3 ft out of water".
James Rassmann, a United States Army Special Forces Green Beret advisor who was aboard Kerrys PCF-94, was knocked overboard when, according to witnesses and the documentation of the event, a mine or rocket exploded close to the boat. According to the documentation for the event, Kerrys arm was injured when he was thrown against a bulkhead during the explosion. PCF 94 returned to the scene and Kerry rescued Rassmann who was receiving sniper fire from the water. Kerry received the Bronze Star Medal with Combat "V" for "heroic achievement", for his actions during this incident; he also received his third Purple Heart.
===Return from Vietnam===
After Kerrys third qualifying wound, he was entitled per Navy regulations to reassignment away from combat duties. Kerrys preferred choice for reassignment was as a military aide in Boston, New York City or Washington, D.C.
On April 11, 1969, he reported to the Brooklyn, New York Brooklyn-based Atlantic Military Sea Transportation Service, where he would remain on active duty for the following year as a personal aide to an officer, Rear Admiral Walter Schlech. On January 1, 1970, Kerry was temporarily promoted to full lieutenant.
Kerry had agreed to an extension of his active duty obligation from December 1969 to August 1970 in order to perform Swift Boat duty.
John Kerry was on active duty in the United States Navy from August 1966 until January 1970. He continued to serve in the Naval Reserve until February 1978.
===Controversy===
{{Main John Kerry military service controversy}}
With the continuing George W. Bush military service controversy controversy that had surrounded the military service of George W. Bush since the United States presidential election, 2000 2000 Presidential election (when he was accused of having used his fathers political influence to gain entrance to the Texas Air National Guard, thereby protecting himself from conscription into the United States Army, and possible service in the Vietnam War), John Kerrys contrasting status as a decorated Vietnam War veteran posed a problem for Bushs re-election campaign, which Republicans sought to counter by calling Kerrys war record into question. As the presidential campaign of 2004 developed, approximately 250 members of a group called Swift Boat Veterans for Truth (SBVT, later renamed Swift Vets and POWs for Truth) opposed Kerrys campaign. The group held press conferences, ran ads and endorsed a book questioning Kerrys service record and his military awards. The group included several members of Kerrys unit, such as Larry Thurlow, who commanded a swift boat alongside of Kerrys,
and Stephen Gardner, who served on Kerrys boat.
The campaign inspired the widely used political pejorative swiftboating, to describe an unfair or untrue political attack.
Most of Kerrys former crewmates have stated that SBVTs allegations are false.
==Anti-war activism (1970–1971)==
{{Main Vietnam Veterans Against the War}}
After returning to the United States, Kerry joined the Vietnam Veterans Against the War (VVAW).
Then numbering about 20,000,
VVAW was considered by some (including the administration of President Richard Nixon) to be an effective, if controversial, component of the antiwar movement.
Kerry participated in the "Winter Soldier Investigation" conducted by VVAW of U.S. atrocities in Vietnam, and he appears in a film by that name that documents the investigation.
According to Nixon Secretary of Defense Melvin Laird, "I didnt approve of what he did, but I understood the protesters quite well", and he declined two requests from the Navy to court martial Reserve Lieutenant Kerry over his antiwar activity.
On April 22, 1971, Kerry appeared before a U.S. Senate committee hearing on proposals relating to ending the war. The day after this testimony, Kerry participated in a demonstration with thousands of other veterans in which he and other Vietnam War veterans threw their medals and service ribbons over a fence erected at the front steps of the United States Capitol building to dramatize their opposition to the war. Jack Smith, a United States Marine Corps Marine, read a statement explaining why the veterans were returning their military awards to the government. For more than two hours, almost 1000 angry veterans tossed their medals, ribbons, hats, jackets, and military papers over the fence. Each veteran gave his or her name, hometown, branch of service and a statement. Kerry threw some of his own decorations and awards as well as some given to him by other veterans to throw. As Kerry threw his decorations over the fence, his statement was: "Im not doing this for any violent reasons, but for peace and justice, and to try and make this country wake up once and for all."
Kerry was arrested on May 30, 1971, during a VVAW march to honor American prisoner of war POWs held captive by North Vietnam. The march was planned as a multi-day event from Concord, Massachusetts Concord to Boston, and while in Lexington, Massachusetts Lexington, participants tried to camp on the village green. At 2:30 a.m., local and state police arrested 441 demonstrators, including Kerry, for trespassing. All were given the Miranda Warning and were hauled away on school buses to spend the night at the Lexington Public Works Garage. Kerry and the other protesters later paid a $5 fine, and were released. The mass arrests caused a community backlash and ended up giving positive coverage to the VVAW.
==Early political career (1972–1985)==

===1972 congressional election===
In 1970, Kerry had considered running for Congress in the Democratic primary against hawkish Democrat Philip J. Philbin of Massachusettss 3rd congressional district, but deferred in favor of Robert Drinan, a Jesuit priest and anti-war activist, who went on to defeat Philbin.
In February 1972, Kerrys wife bought a house in Worcester, Massachusetts Worcester, with Kerry intending to run against the Massachusettss 4th congressional district 4th districts aging thirteen-term incumbent Democrat, Harold Donohue.
The couple never moved in. After Republican Congressman F. Bradford Morse of the neighboring Massachusettss 5th congressional district 5th district announced his retirement and then resignation to become Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Political and General Assembly Affairs at the United Nations, the couple instead rented an apartment in Lowell, Massachusetts Lowell, so that Kerry could run to succeed him.
Including Kerry, the Democratic primary race had 10 candidates, including attorney Paul J. Sheehy, State Representative Anthony R. DiFruscia, John J. Desmond and Robert B. Kennedy. Kerry ran a "very expensive, sophisticated campaign", financed by out-of-state backers and supported by many young volunteers.
DiFruscias campaign headquarters shared the same building as Kerrys. On the eve of the September 19 primary, police found Kerrys younger brother Cameron Kerry Cameron and campaign field director Thomas J. Vallely, breaking into where the buildings telephone lines were located. They were arrested and charged with "burglary breaking and entering with the intent to commit grand larceny", but the charges were dropped a year later. At the time of the incident, DiFruscia alleged that the two were trying to disrupt his get-out-the vote efforts. Vallely and Cameron Kerry maintained that they were only checking their own telephone lines because they had received an anonymous call warning that the Kerry lines would be cut.
Despite the arrests, Kerry won the primary with 20,771 votes (27.56%). Sheehy came second with 15,641 votes (20.75%), followed by DiFruscia with 12,222 votes (16.22%), Desmond with 10,213 votes (13.55%) and Kennedy with 5,632 votes (7.47%). The remaining 10,891 votes were split amongst the other five candidates, with 1970 nominee Richard Williams coming last with just 1,706 votes (2.26%).
In the general election, Kerry was initially favored to defeat the Republican candidate, former State Representative Paul W. Cronin, and conservative Democrat Roger P. Durkin, who ran as an Independent. A week after the primary, one poll put Kerry 26-points ahead of Cronin.
His campaign called for a national health insurance system, discounted prescription drugs for the unemployed, a jobs program to clean up the Merrimack River and rent controls in Lowell and Lawrence, Massachusetts Lawrence. A major obstacle, however, was the districts leading newspaper, the Conservatism in the United States conservative The Sun (Lowell) The Sun. The paper editorialized against him. It also ran critical news stories about his out-of-state contributions and his "carpetbagger carpetbagging", because he had only moved into the district in April. Subsequently, released "Watergate" Oval Office tape recordings of the Nixon White House showed that defeating Kerrys candidacy had attracted the personal attention of President Nixon.
Kerry himself asserts that Nixon sent operatives to Lowell to help derail his campaign.
The race was the most expensive for Congress in the country that year
and four days before the general election, Durkin withdrew and endorsed Cronin, hoping to see Kerry defeated.
The week before, a poll had put Kerry 10 points ahead of Cronin, with Dukin on 13%.
In the final days of the campaign, Kerry sensed that it was "slipping away" and Cronin emerged victorious by 110,970 votes (53.45%) to Kerrys 92,847 (44.72%).
After his defeat, Kerry lamented in a letter to supporters that "for two solid weeks, [The Sun] called me un-American, New Left antiwar agitator, unpatriotic, and labeled me every other un- and anti- that they could find. Its hard to believe that one newspaper could be so powerful, but they were."
He later felt that his failure to respond directly to The Sun{{}}s attacks cost him the race.
===Law career===
After Kerrys 1972 defeat, he and his wife bought a house in Belvidere, Lowell,
entering a decade which his brother Cameron later called "the years in exile".
He spent some time working as a fundraiser for the Cooperative for Assistance and Relief Everywhere (CARE), an international humanitarian organization.
In September 1973, he entered Boston College Law School.
While studying, Kerry worked as a talk radio host on WBZ (AM) WBZ and, in July 1974, was named executive director of Mass Action, a Massachusetts advocacy association.
Kerry received his Juris Doctor (Juris Doctor J.D.) from Boston College in 1976.
While in law school he had been a student prosecutor in the office of the District Attorney of Middlesex County, Massachusetts Middlesex County, John J. Droney.
After passing the bar exam and being admitted to the Massachusetts bar in 1976, he went to work in that office as a full-time prosecutor.
In January 1977, Droney promoted him to First Assistant District Attorney, essentially making Kerry his campaign and media surrogate because Droney was afflicted with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, or Lou Gehrigs Disease). As First Assistant, Kerry tried cases, which included winning convictions in a high-profile rape case and a murder. He also played a role in administering the office, including initiating the creation of special white-collar and organized crime units, creating programs to address the problems of rape and other crime victims and witnesses, and managing trial calendars to reflect case priorities.
It was in this role in 1978 that Kerry announced an investigation into possible criminal charges against then Senator Edward Brooke, regarding "misstatements" in his first divorce trial.
The inquiry ended with no charges being brought after investigators and prosecutors determined that Brookes misstatements were pertinent to the case, but were not material enough to have affected the outcome.
Droneys health was poor and Kerry had decided to run for his position in the 1978 election should Droney drop out. However, Droney was re-elected and his health improved; he went on to re-assume many of the duties that he had delegated to Kerry.
Kerry thus decided to leave, departing in 1979 with assistant DA Roanne Sragow to set up their own law firm.
