Jonathan Arthur "Jon" Scott (born November 7, 1958) is an American television news News presenter anchor who hosts Fox Report Fox Report Weekend on Fox News. Also, Scott is the lead anchor for any breaking news each weekend. Jon Scott longtime co-anchored Happening Now on Fox News until the network expanded Americas Newsroom from 2 hours to 3, ending the show in June 2018 after 11 years of being on air. Scott was also the host of Fox News Watch, a program that in September 2013 was replaced by the similar format Media Buzz, which is hosted by Howard Kurtz.

==Personal life and education==
Jon Scott was born in Denver, Colorado, and graduated from Denver Lutheran High School. He studied journalism at the University of Missouri–Columbia, Missouri Columbia. He is also a licensed pilot, rated to fly single-engine airplanes,
and sometimes uses his expertise when covering aviation stories, such as the July 6, 2013, crash of Asiana Airlines Flight 214.

Scott has four children. One son is in the army after graduating from the United States Military Academy in 2011. His older brother was an infantryman in the Vietnam War.
==Broadcasting career==
Scott began his career as a correspondent for KOMU-TV (NBC) in Columbia, Missouri, a station owned and operated by University of Missouri Mizzou. Later, he was the weekday evening news anchor, weekend co-anchor, and reporter for WPLG-TV (American Broadcasting Company ABC) in Miami. He also worked as a reporter and bureau chief for KUSA-TV (NBC) in Denver.
Beginning in 1988, Scott was a reporter for the syndicated news program Inside Edition.

From 1992 to 1995 Scott was a correspondent for Dateline NBC. He served as the host of A Current Affair (U.S. TV series) A Current Affair and eventually joined the Fox News Channel in 1996. He is an avid watcher of The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer. During May 1 and May 2, 2011, he served as the studio anchor for Fox News coverage of the death of Osama bin Laden.

He received an Emmy for news writing for the NBC program Dateline.

== Controversy ==
Scott drew criticism in April 2017 after stating on Fox &amp; Friends, "Just an aside to the Muslim community, if you dont want to be portrayed in a negative light, maybe dont burn people alive and set off bombs and things like that."
Critics charged this statement as a hasty generalization, a logical fallacy in which specifics are incorrectly generalized to a greater population.

In 2009, Scott also drew criticism from Howard Kurtz, then at CNN, for Plagiarism plagiarizing a Republican party press release regarding the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Scotts content repeated the same typographical error, and did not attribute or acknowledge  its source. Scott acknowledged that he had re-used the press release and apologized for not correcting the error, but did not apologize for plagiarizing the content.
==Television appearances==
* Fox Report
* A Current Affair (U.S. TV series) A Current Affair
* Fox &amp; Friends
* Fox News Watch
* Happening Now
