Lea Gabrielle (born Lea Gabrielle Potts in 1975)
is a journalist and correspondent for the Fox News Channel. She is also a general-assignment reporter for Shepard Smith Reporting.

==Background==
While attending Mount Vernon High School (Alexandria, Virginia) Mount Vernon High School in Fairfax County, Virginia, Gabrielle was named a finalist in the Intel Science Talent Search Westinghouse Science Talent Search.
She is a 1997 graduate of the United States Naval Academy, earning a bachelor of science in mechanical engineering.
Entering the active-duty Navy after graduation, Gabrielle attended the U.S. Navy Flight School at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida from 1998 to 2000,
earning her United States naval aviator Naval Aviator Wings. She is also qualified with an instrument rating and as a commercial pilot.
She served in the United States Navy for twelve years and was a naval aviator of the single-seat F/A-18 "Hornet," with combat deployment from {{USS George Washington CVN-73 6}}.  Her call sign as a pilot was "Flower".
Additional duties were as a landing signal officer (LSO) and as a squadron Public affairs (military) public affairs officer.
She also served as an intelligence operations officer during Operation Enduring Freedom,
and while in Afghanistan she was embedded with a Navy SEAL unit conducting intelligence operations.
She was also a defense foreign liaison officer.
==Journalism career==
After leaving the Navy, Gabrielle attended the New York Film Academy in 2009, receiving a digital journalism certificate.
She then worked for NBC News (2010-2011) in Washington, D.C.
where she shot, wrote, edited, and produced packages for NBC Nightly News, The Today Show, N websites, and web spots. As a digital journalist and editor (Avid), Gabrielle covered stories for the NBC Nightly News web page and nationwide NBC affiliates. She conducted interviews for White House and Political Correspondents and Nightly News (including the President, the first female governor in Afghanistan, and GOP Presidential nominees).
In September 2011, Gabrielle moved to San Diego, California, and became a military reporter for KNSD-TV (NBC 7),
using her then-married name Lea Sutton.
She joined Fox News Channel in New York City in December 2013.
