Ethel Marian Sumner "Maie" Casey, Baroness Casey, Companion of the Order of Australia AC, Royal Society of Arts FRSA (née Ryan; 13 March 1892 – 20 January 1983) was an Australian pioneer aviator, poet, librettist, biographer, memoirist and artist. Richard Casey, Baron Casey was her husband.

Robert Menzies famously referred to her as "Lady Macbeth".
==Early life==
Ethel Marian Sumner Ryan was born in 1892, younger child of Victorian-born parents, Charles Ryan (surgeon) Sir Charles Snodgrass Ryan, a prominent Melbourne surgeon, and his wife, Alice (née Sumner) Lady Ryan. She is also the granddaughter of Charles Ryan and Marian Cotton (John Cotton (ornithologist) John Cottons daughter).
She became known as "Maie" at an early age. Rupert Ryan was her brother. She was related by blood or marriage to leading Victorian families; one of her fathers sisters married Lord Charles Montagu Douglas Scott, son of Walter Montagu Douglas Scott, 5th Duke of Buccleuch the 5th Duke of Buccleuch.
Casey grew up on Collins Street, Melbourne Collins street, Melbourne. Her father had his residence and surgery on the same street.
Casey was educated privately, and when she was 14 years old she left Australia to attend St Georges Boarding School in Ascot, Berkshire Ascot, England.
After some time she accompanied her brother to Cologne.
Her brother Rupert Ryan Rupert, a member of the Australian House of Representatives House of Representatives 1940–52, married Lady Rosemary Hay, daughter of Victor Hay, 21st Earl of Erroll the 21st Earl of Erroll. Casey wanted to go to university, but was blocked by her father due to her sister Melians breakdown during her time at Cambridge.
During World War I, she served as a Voluntary Aid Detachment VAD nurse.
==Marriage to Richard Casey==
Maie Ryan married Richard Casey on 24 June 1926, at St Jamess Church, Piccadilly St Jamess Parish Church, Westminster, London. She supported him in his public life. The couple had two children.
His career saw them live successively in Canberra, Washington, Cairo, and India, where, during the last years of the Raj, she was List of Governors of Bengal Vicereine of Bengal. In Washington, D.C. she was an eloquent advocate of the United States joining World War II the Allied cause. {{citation needed date=November 2013}}

==Famous Associations==
In Egypt, she was a confidante of wartime leaders Winston Churchill, Bernard Montgomery, 1st Viscount Montgomery of Alamein Field-Marshal Lord Montgomery and Harold Macmillan as well as an indefatigable war worker; in Bengal she fought to raise the status of Indian women, discussed political affairs with Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi Mahatma Gandhi and became an intimate friend of Jawaharlal Nehru and Edwina Mountbatten, Countess Mountbatten of Burma Edwina Mountbatten. {{Citation needed date=February 2010}}

Casey also associated with Noël Coward, Patrick White, Katharine Hepburn, Cecil Beaton and Sidney and Cynthia Nolan.
==Literary works==
Casey published three autobiographical works. An Australian Story, 1837–1907, published in 1962 discussed the history of four generations of her family.
Tides and Eddies was published in 1966 and an account of her early married life.
In 1980, Rare Encounters included the reminiscences of Lady Edwina Mountbatten, Viscount Montgomery of Alamein, Nellie Melba Dame Nellie Melba, and her mother in law, Mrs R.G. Casey.
Casey also published in 1975 a biography on Nellie Melba Dame Nellie Melba, entitled Melba Re-visited.
She further produces two volumes of verse, Verses, in 1963 and From the Night in 1976.
She further co-authored Early Melbourne Architecture 1840–1888 in 1953.
Casey further wrote a libretto to Margaret Sutherlands opera The Young Kabbarli.

==Interest in the Arts==
Casey was a painter and illustrator. She attended the Westminster School of Art in London and in Australia associated with the George Bell School in Melbourne.
She illustrated Ellis Rowans 1961s Wild flower Hunter and her own book, An Australian Story.
She was made a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts. She was a member of the International Committee appointed to judge a work of sculpture to honour the "Unknown Political Prisoner", and she had a long association with the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. {{Citation needed date=February 2010}}

==Further patronage==
She became the patron of the Australian Women Pilots Association (AWPA) at its inaugural meeting at Bankstown on 16 September 1950.

In January 1960, Richard Casey was made a life peer of the United Kingdom House of Lords, and she became Baroness Casey. After his retirement as Governor-General of Australia (1965–69), they purchased a house built by Eugene von Guerard in East Melbourne, Victoria East Melbourne, and her last years were spent in Berwick, Victoria Berwick. Lady Casey was appointed a Companion of the Order of Australia (AC) in 1982
and died in January 1983, aged 90.

==Further reading==
Glittering Surfaces, a detailed biography of Casey, based on extensive archival research and featuring a critical assessment of her personality and achievements and candidly surveying her relations with her children, husband and other colleagues and intimates, was published by Diane Langmore in 1997.
==See also==
* Spouse of the Governor-General of Australia
