Mathias Rust (born 1 June 1968) is a German aviator known for his illegal landing near Red Square in Moscow on 28 May 1987. An amateur pilot, the teenager flew from Helsinki, Finland, to Moscow, being tracked several times by Soviet air defence and interceptors. The Soviet fighters never received permission to shoot him down, and several times his aeroplane was mistaken for a friendly aircraft. He landed on Vasilevsky Descent next to Red Square near the Moscow Kremlin Kremlin in the capital of the Soviet Union.

Rust said he wanted to create an "imaginary bridge" to Eastern Bloc the East, and he has said that his flight was intended to reduce tension and suspicion between the two Cold War sides.
Rusts flight through a supposedly impenetrable air defence system had great effect on the Soviet military and led to the dismissal of many senior officers, including Minister of Defence (Soviet Union) Minister of Defence Marshal of the Soviet Union Sergey Leonidovich Sokolov Sergei Sokolov and the Commander-in-Chief of the Soviet Air Defence Forces, former World War II fighter ace pilot Chief Marshal Alexander Koldunov. The incident aided Mikhail Gorbachev in the implementation of Perestroika his reforms, by allowing him to dismiss numerous military officials opposed to his policies. Rust was sentenced to four years in prison (for violation of border crossing and air traffic regulations, and provoking an emergency situation upon his landing). He was officially pardoned by the Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet Andrei Gromyko, and released after 14 months in prison.
==Flight profile==
File:Flugroute von Mathias Rust.svg thumb Flight path
Rust, aged 18, was an inexperienced pilot, with about 50 hours of flying experience at the time of his flight. On 13 May 1987, Rust left Uetersen Airport Uetersen near Hamburg and his home town Wedel in his rented Cessna 172 Reims Cessna F172P D-ECJB, which was modified by removing some of the seats and replacing them with auxiliary fuel tanks. He spent the next two weeks travelling across Northern Europe, visiting the Faroe islands, spending a week in Iceland, and then visiting Bergen on his way back. He was later quoted as saying that he had the idea of attempting to reach Moscow even before the departure, and he saw the trip to Iceland (where he visited Hofdi House, the site of Reykjavík Summit unsuccessful talks between the United States and the Soviet Union in October 1986) as a way to test his piloting skills.
On the morning of 28 May 1987, Rust refuelled at Helsinki-Malmi Airport. He told air traffic control that he was going to Stockholm, and took off at 12:21 p.m. Immediately after his final communication with traffic control he turned his plane to the east near Nummela (Vihti) Nummela. Air traffic controllers tried to contact him as he was moving around the busy Helsinki–Moscow route, but Rust turned off all his communications equipment.
Rust disappeared from the Finnish air traffic radar near Espoo.
Control personnel presumed an emergency and a rescue effort was organized, including a Finnish Border Guard patrol boat. They found an oil patch near Sipoo where Rust disappeared from radar, and performed an underwater search with no results.

Rust crossed the Baltic Sea Baltic coastline over Estonia and turned towards Moscow. At 14:29 he appeared on Soviet Air Defence Forces (PVO) radar and, after failure to reply to an Identification friend or foe IFF signal, was assigned combat number 8255. Three Surface-to-air missile SAM battalions of 54th Air Defense Corps 54th Air Defence Corps tracked him for some time, but failed to obtain permission to launch at him.
All air defences were brought to readiness and two Interceptor aircraft interceptors were sent to investigate. At 14:48 near Gdov one of the pilots observed a white sport plane similar to a Yakovlev Yak-12 and asked for permission to engage, but was denied.
The fighters lost contact with Rust soon after this. While they were being directed back to him he disappeared from radar near Staraya Russa. West German magazine Bunte speculated that he might have landed there for some time, noting that he changed his clothes during his flight and that he took too much time to fly to Moscow considering his planes speed and the weather conditions.

Air defence re-established contact with Rusts plane several times but confusion followed all of these events. The PVO system had shortly before been divided into several districts, which simplified management but created additional overhead for tracking officers at the districts borders. The local air regiment near Pskov was on maneuvers and, due to inexperienced pilots tendency to forget correct Identification friend or foe IFF designator settings, local control officers assigned all traffic in the area friendly status, including Rust.
Near Torzhok there was a similar situation, as increased air traffic was created by a rescue effort for an air crash the previous day. Rust, flying a slow propeller-driven aircraft, was confused with one of the helicopters taking part in the rescue. He was spotted several more times and given false friendly recognition twice. Rust was considered as a domestic training plane defying regulations, and was issued least priority.
Around 7:00 p.m. Rust appeared above Moscow. He had initially intended to land in the Moscow Kremlin Kremlin, but he reasoned that landing inside, hidden by the Kremlin walls, would have allowed the KGB to arrest him and deny the incident. Therefore, he changed his landing spot to Red Square.
Heavy pedestrian traffic did not allow him to land there either, so after circling about the square one more time, he was able to land on Bolshoy Moskvoretsky Bridge by St. Basils Cathedral. A later inquiry found that trolleybus wires normally strung over the bridge—which would have  prevented his landing there—had been removed for maintenance that morning, and were replaced the next day.
After taxiing past the cathedral he stopped about {{convert 100 m}} from the square, where he was greeted by curious passersby and was asked for autographs. When asked where he was from, he replied "Germany" making the bystanders think he was from East Germany; but when he said West Germany, they were surprised.
