Michael Rubens Bloomberg
(born on February 14, 1942) is an American businessman, engineer, author, politician, and philanthropist. As of June 2018, his net worth was estimated at $51.8 billion,
making him the 8th-richest person in the United States and the 11th richest person in the world. He has joined The Giving Pledge, whereby billionaires pledge to give away at least half of their wealth.
Bloomberg is the founder, CEO, and owner of Bloomberg L.P., a global financial services, mass media, and software company that bears his name, and is notable for its Bloomberg Terminal, a computer software system providing financial data widely used in the global financial services industry. He began his career at the securities brokerage Salomon Brothers, before forming his own company in 1981 and spending the next twenty years as its chairman and CEO. Bloomberg also served as chairman of the board of trustees at his alma mater, Johns Hopkins University, from 1996 to 2002.

Bloomberg has served as the List of mayors of New York City 108th Mayor of New York City, holding office for three consecutive terms, beginning with New York City mayoral election, 2001 his first election in 2001. A Democratic Party (United States) Democrat before seeking elective office, Bloomberg switched his party registration in 2001 to run for mayor as a Republican Party (United States) Republican. He defeated opponent Mark J. Green Mark Green in a close election held just weeks after the September 11 terrorist attacks. He won a second term in 2005, and left the Republican Party two years later. Bloomberg campaigned to change the citys term limits law, and was elected to his third term in 2009 as an Independent (politician) Independent candidate on the Republican ballot line.

Bloomberg was frequently mentioned as a possible centrist candidate for the U.S. Presidential elections in United States presidential election, 2008 2008, and United States presidential election, 2012 2012, as well as for Governor of New York in New York gubernatorial election, 2010 2010. He declined to seek either office, opting to continue serving as the Mayor of New York City.

On January 1, 2014, Bill de Blasio succeeded Bloomberg as the Mayor of New York City. After a brief stint as a full-time philanthropist, Bloomberg re-assumed the position of CEO at Bloomberg L.P. by the end of 2014. On March 7, 2016, Bloomberg announced that he would not run as a third party candidate in the United States Presidential election, 2016 2016 U.S. presidential election despite widespread speculation that he would, and later endorsed Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton for president.

{{TOC limit 4}}

==Early life==
Michael Bloomberg was born at St. Elizabeths Medical Center (Boston) St. Elizabeths Hospital, in the Brighton, Massachusetts Brighton neighborhood of Boston, on February 14, 1942.
Bloombergs family is Jews Jewish. Bloombergs father, William Henry Bloomberg (1906–1963), was born in Chelsea, Massachusetts, and worked as an accountant for a dairy company. He was the son of Alexander "Elick" Bloomberg, an Immigration of Eastern European Jews immigrant from Russia.
The Baker Library/Bloomberg Center Bloomberg Center at the Harvard Business School was named in his honor.
His mother, Charlotte (Rubens) Bloomberg (January 2, 1909 – June 19, 2011) was a native of Jersey City, New Jersey.
His maternal grandfather, Max Rubens, was an immigrant from present-day Belarus, east of the Iron Curtain.
The family lived in Allston, Massachusetts Allston, Massachusetts, until Bloomberg was two years old, when they moved to Brookline, Massachusetts Brookline for the next two years, finally settling in Medford, Massachusetts Medford, a Boston suburb, where he lived until after he graduated from college.
Bloomberg is an Eagle Scout (Boy Scouts of America) Eagle Scout.
Bloomberg attended Johns Hopkins University, where he joined the fraternity Phi Kappa Psi. In 1962, as a sophomore, he constructed the schools mascot, the Johns Hopkins Blue Jays blue jay. He graduated in 1964 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering. In 1966 he graduated from Harvard Business School with a Master of Business Administration.
==Business career==
In 1973, Bloomberg became a general partner at Salomon Brothers, a bulge-bracket Wall Street investment bank, where he headed equity trading and, later, systems development. In 1981, Salomon Brothers was bought
by Phibro Corporation, and Bloomberg was laid off from the investment bank.
He was given no severance package, but owned $10 million worth of equity as a partner at the firm.

Using this money, Bloomberg went on to set up a company named Innovative Market Systems. His business plan was based on the realization that Wall Street (and the financial community generally) was willing to pay for high-quality business information, delivered as quickly as possible and in as many usable forms possible, via technology (e.g., graphs of highly specific trends).
In 1982, Merrill Lynch became the new companys first customer, installing 22 of the companys Market Master terminals and investing $30 million in the company. The company was renamed Bloomberg L.P. in 1987.
By 1990, it had installed 8,000 terminals.
Over the years, ancillary products including Bloomberg News, Bloomberg Message, and Bloomberg Tradebook were launched.
As of October 2015, the company had more than 325,000 terminal subscribers worldwide.
His company also has a radio network which currently has 1130 WBBR (AM) WBBR AM in New York City as its flagship station. He left the position of CEO to pursue a political career as the mayor of New York City. Bloomberg was replaced as CEO by Lex Fenwick.
During Bloombergs three mayoral terms, the company was led by president Daniel L. Doctoroff, a former deputy mayor under Bloomberg.
After completing his final term as the mayor of New York City, Bloomberg spent his first eight months out of office as a full-time philanthropist. In the fall of 2014, he announced that he would return to Bloomberg L.P. as CEO at the end of 2014,
succeeding Doctoroff, who had led the company since retiring from the Bloomberg administration in February 2008.
Bloomberg remains the CEO of Bloomberg L.P.
Bloomberg is a member of Kappa Beta Phi.
He wrote an autobiography, with help from Bloomberg News Editor-in-Chief Matthew Winkler (journalist) Matthew Winkler, called Bloomberg by Bloomberg.
===Wealth===
In March 2009, Forbes reported Bloombergs wealth at $16 billion, a gain of $4.5 billion over the previous year, enjoying the worlds biggest increase in wealth in 2009.
At that time, there were only four fortunes in the U.S. that were larger (although the Wal-Mart family fortune is split among four people). He had moved from 142nd to 17th in the Forbes list of the worlds billionaires in only two years (March 2007 – March 2009).
In September 2013, Forbes reported Bloombergs wealth as $33 billion and ranked him as the 13th richest person in the world.

In March 2012, Forbes reported Bloombergs wealth at $22 billion, ranking him 20th in the world and 11th in the United States.
