Otto Lilienthal (23 May 1848 – 10 August 1896) was a Germany German pioneer of aviation who became known as the  flying man
. He was the first person to make well-documented, repeated, successful flights with Glider (aircraft) gliders.
Newspapers and magazines published photographs of Lilienthal gliding, favorably influencing public and scientific opinion about the possibility of flying machines becoming practical. On 9 August 1896, his glider stalled and he was unable to regain control. Falling from about 15 m (50 ft), he broke his neck and died the next day, 10 August 1896.

==Early life==
Lilienthal was born on 23 May 1848 in Anklam, Pomerania Province (1815-1945) Pomerania Province, German kingdom of Prussia. According to his birth certificate,
his parents were Gustav and Caroline née Pohle. They belonged to the St. Nikolai evangelical church community in Anklam, where he later attended grammar school, and where he eventually studied the flight of birds with his brother Gustav (1849–1933).
Fascinated by the idea of manned flight, Lilienthal and his brother made strap-on wings, but failed in their attempts to fly. He then attended the regional technical school in Potsdam for two years and trained at the Schwarzkopf Company before becoming a professional design engineer. He would later attend the Royal Technical Academy in Berlin.

In 1867, Lilienthal began experiments on the force of air in earnest, interrupted when he served in the Franco-Prussian War. As a staff engineer in various engineering companies, Lilienthal received his first patent for a mining machine. Five years later he founded his own company to make boilers and steam engines.
Lilienthal published his famous book Birdflight as the Basis of Aviation in 1889.

Lilienthal was born to middle-class parents. They had eight children, but only three of them survived infancy: Otto, Gustav Lilienthal Gustav, and Marie.
The brothers worked together all their lives on technical, social, and cultural projects.

On 6 June 1878, Lilienthal married Agnes Fischer, daughter of a deputy. Music brought them together; she was trained in piano and voice while Lilienthal played the French horn and had a good tenor voice.
After marriage, they took up residence in Berlin and had four children: Otto, Anna, Fritz, and Frida.
==Experiments in flight==
File:Whitestorkflight.png thumb left Mechanics of white stork flight in his Der Vogelflug als Grundlage der Fliegekunst (1889)
File:Otto Lilienthal gliding experiment ppmsca.02546.jpg thumb Lilienthal in mid-flight, c. 1895
Lilienthals greatest contribution was in the development of heavier-than-air flight. He made his flights from an artificial hill he built near Berlin and from natural hills, especially in the Rhinow region.

The filing of a U.S. Patent in 1894 by Lilienthal directed pilots to grip the "bar" for carrying and flying the hang glider.
The A-frame of Percy Pilcher and Lilienthal echoes in todays control frame for hang gliders and ultralight trike ultralight aircraft.  Working in conjunction with his brother Gustav, Lilienthal made over 2,000 flights in gliders of his design starting in 1891 with his first glider version, the Derwitzer Glider Derwitzer, until his death in a gliding crash in 1896. His total flying time was five hours.
At the beginning, in 1891, Lilienthal succeeded with jumps and flights covering a distance of about {{Convert 25 m ft}}. He could use the updraft of a 10 m/s wind against a hill to remain stationary with respect to the ground, shouting to a photographer on the ground to manoeuvre into the best position for a photo. In 1893, in the Rhinow Hills, he was able to achieve flight distances as long as {{Convert 250 m ft}}.  This record remained unbeaten for him or anyone else at the time of his death.
