Image:Patty Wagstaff Extra 300S.jpg thumb right Patty Wagstaff taxiing her Cirrus Aircraft Cirrus-sponsored Extra 300 at Rocky Mountain Metropolitan Airport JeffCo airport in June 2008

Patty Wagstaff (née Patricia Rosalie Kearns Combs; born 11 September 1951) is an American aviator and U.S. National Aerobatic Champion.

Wagstaff was introduced to aviation as a child; her father was a pilot for Japan Airlines, and she moved to Japan when she was nine years old.  After graduating from high school in California, she moved to Australia for five years where she traveled up the west coast of Australia in a small single-engine boat with no radio.  After moving to Alaska in 1978, she worked for the Bristol Bay Native Association in Dillingham, Alaska where she started taking flying lessons and began her own career as a pilot. Her first flight in a small airplane in the Alaskan bush ended in a crash and that was when she decided to learn to fly.  Her first lesson was in a Cessna 185.  After earning her single and multi-engine land, single engine sea and commercial and instrument ratings, she became a Certified Flight and Instrument Instructor.   Since then she has earned a commercial rotorcraft rating and has flown many types of aircraft.  She  holds type ratings in the TBM Avenger, T-28, L-39 and Tucano.  Her sister, Toni, is a pilot for United Airlines.
In 1985, Wagstaff qualified for the US National Aerobatic Team and competed both nationally and internationally until 1996.  She was the top U.S. medal winner, winning gold, silver, and bronze medals in international competitions for several years.  In 1991, won her first of three US National Aerobatic Championships, the first woman to win that competition.
In 1991, She was the International Aerobatic Club champion in 1993. The following year, her Goodrich Corporation Goodrich-sponsored Extra EA-260 Extra 260 airplane was put on display next to Amelia Earharts Lockheed Vega at the Smithsonian Institutions National Air and Space Museum.
From 1988 to 1994, she won the Betty Skelton Frankman Betty Skelton First Lady of Aerobatics award six times in a row.  In 1996, Wagstaff was the top-scoring US pilot at the World Aerobatics Championship. That year, she also first person to win the  Charlie Hillard Trophy, awarded to the highest scoring U.S. pilot at the World Aerobatic Championships.



In 2001, Wagstaff began training pilots of the Kenya Wilfdlife Service in Kenya.  

In 1997, Wagstaff received her first Hall of Fame inductions, becoming inducted into both the Arizona Aviation Hall of Fame followed by the International Womens Aviation Hall of Fame. In 1997, she was awarded the National Aeronautic Association Paul Tissandier Diploma, and won the Bill Barber Award for sportsmanship in 1998. In 2002, she won the Katherine Stinson Katherine and Marjorie Stinson Award, and in 2004, was elected into what is arguably aviations most prestigious hall, the National Aviation Hall of Fame.
In December 2006, she was inducted into the International Council of Air Shows Foundation Hall of Fame.
