Paul Moyer (born June 13, 1941)
is an American Journalism journalist. He co-anchored the 5 PM and 11 PM weekday editions of KNBC-TVs Channel 4 News with Colleen Williams. Moyer has worked primarily in the two major television markets—New York City New York and Los Angeles—in addition to briefly working on network newscasts.  Moyer was Los Angeles longest-running news anchor following the death of KTLA anchor Hal Fishman on August 7, 2007. He is married and has four children, Elise, Paul, Dylan and Kyle.

On April 1, 2009, KNBCs Colleen Williams announced, during the evening newscast, that Moyer had decided to retire after 25 years at the station.
Moyers salary was estimated at more than $3 million a year of his time of retirement.
In 1980 he was earning $250,000, and by 1993 it was cut to $1 million per annum.
In 2011 he sold the family home worth $9.5 million to buy a more modest retirement home in Los Angeles.
==Early career==
Moyer was born in Los Angeles. He attended Torrance High School and the University of Arizona (class of 1964), and tried out for the Pittsburgh Pirates, before beginning a broadcasting career. He served positions at KTIV in Sioux City, Iowa, WMBD-TV and WMBD (AM) WMBD radio in Peoria, Illinois, KTVI in St. Louis, Missouri St. Louis, KDKA-TV and KDKA (AM) KDKA radio in Pittsburgh, and then WCBS-TV in New York City
before returning to Los Angeles and joining KNBC in March 1972 as reporter and weekend anchor. The KNBC Newservice, as it was known, then featured Jess Marlow, Tom Snyder, and Tom Brokaw as the main nightly anchors and was the first serious competition in the local news ratings against KCBS-TV KNXTs The Big News with Jerry Dunphy.  Moyer soon moved to the 11 p.m. newscast in July 1973 and to the 6 p.m. newscast in December 1974 with the respective departures of Brokaw and Snyder (the latter instance followed the addition of John Schubeck to the late news).

Moyer would anchor at KNBC and host its Sunday program, in both cases working alongside longtime KNBC anchorwoman Kelly Lange.  However, after the station relieved him of his anchor duties, he moved over to rival KABC-TV in 1979 initially as a "special correspondent" for Eyewitness News.  Soon, however, when the weekday operation expanded to three hours in the early evening in the fall of 1980, Moyer was named co-anchor of the 5 p.m. hour with Ann Martin (journalist) Ann Martin.  He soon replaced Dunphy (who had moved to KABC in 1975) on the 11 p.m. news after the latter was shot during a robbery attempt near the studio in 1983; the appointment would become permanent a year later.

==Career==
Moyer was a visible face on the American Broadcasting Company ABC network in the mid-1980s, appearing as a correspondent on Eye on Hollywood and substituting on World News This Morning and Good Morning America.  But in 1992, after a highly publicized bidding war, Moyer returned to KNBC in July 1992 to co-anchor with longtime San Francisco anchorwoman-journalist Wendy Tokuda.  However, when ratings failed to surpass KABCs, Moyer was once again paired with Lange; both received a seven-figure salary. According to a June 2007 article in Los Angeles Magazine, Moyers salary was rumored to be closer to $8 million.

Moyer appeared as himself on the TV show The West Wing (TV series) The West Wing while doing an election-night stint for MSNBC.  His nephew, Micah Ohlman, had anchored the weekend newscasts at rival KABC and is now anchoring at KTLA. He was at one time designated the honorary mayor of West Los Angeles.

Moyer is known as an avid car collector, particularly interested in Ferrari cars, Ford GTs, and other sports cars.  He won the Toyota Pro/Celebrity Race in 1988.

On April 30, 1992, he toured Los Angeles in a helicopter to observe damage from the 1992 Los Angeles riots Los Angeles riots.

In April 2009, Moyer announced that he would be retiring from KNBC where he had been a fixture for over 30 years.

==In popular culture==
The morning duo Kevin and Bean on KROQ-FM made fun of Moyer on a regular basis for his presentation style and alleged behind-the-scenes temper. An audio tape from the early 1990s
features Moyer verbally berating Ann Martin (journalist) Ann Martin when they anchored together just seconds before the newscast began.  The audio tape references Moyer bad-mouthing rival anchor Harold Greene (journalist) Harold Greene while accusing Martin of drinking before the newscast.  Moyer suggests the two should take up their issues with Roger Bell, KABC-TVs News Director.
In 1994, Moyer had a short-lived stint as Bill Cosbys replacement as the face of Jell-O pudding snacks.

In May 2006, Moyer led an investigation on the rapidly increasing Chemtrail/Weather modification problem in Southern California. His four-minute report Toxic Sky, produced for KNBC in Los Angeles, went viral on the Internet almost as soon as it was posted to their official website NBC4.TV (now nbclosangeles.com).
==Filmography==
*Heat (1995 film) Heat (1995) – self
*Boomtown (2002 TV series) Boomtown (2002) – self
*One Six Right (2005) – self
