{{British Royal Family}}

Prince Andrew, Duke of York, {{post-nominals country=GBR sep=, size=100% KG GCVO CD ADC(P)}} (Andrew Albert Christian Edward, born 19 February 1960) is a member of the British royal family. He is the third child and second son of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. At the time of his birth, he was second in the Succession to the British throne line of succession to the British throne; {{as of 2018 06 lc=y}} he is seventh in line.

He holds the rank of Commander (Royal Navy) commander and the honorary rank of Vice admiral (Royal Navy) Vice Admiral (as of February 2015) in the Royal Navy, in which he served as an active-duty helicopter pilot and instructor and as the captain of a warship. He saw active service during the Falklands War, flying on multiple missions including anti-surface warfare, Exocet missile decoy, and casualty evacuation.

In 1986, Prince Andrew married Sarah, Duchess of York Sarah Ferguson; the couples marriage, subsequent separation and eventual divorce in 1996 attracted a high level of media coverage. As well as carrying out various official engagements, he served as Britains Special Representative for International Trade and Investment until July 2011.

==Early life and education==
Prince Andrew was born in the Belgian Suite of Buckingham Palace on 19 February 1960,
the third child and second son of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. He was baptised in the Palaces Music Room on 8 April 1960 by the Archbishop of Canterbury, Geoffrey Fisher.{{refn His godparents were: Prince Henry, Duke of Gloucester the Duke of Gloucester (his maternal great-uncle); Princess Alexandra, The Honourable Lady Ogilvy Princess Alexandra of Kent (his first cousin once removed); Hugh FitzRoy, 11th Duke of Grafton Hugh Fitzroy, Earl of Euston; the John Elphinstone, 17th Lord Elphinstone Lord Elphinstone (his first cousin once removed); and Georgina Kennard Mrs Harold Phillips.
}} He is the namesake of his paternal grandfather, Prince Andrew of Greece and Denmark, who died 16 years before he was born.

File:G House from the South Lawn on an Autumn Afternoon.jpg thumb right Gordonstoun

Prince Andrew was the first child born to a reigning monarch since the birth in 1857 of Queen Victorias youngest child, Princess Beatrice of the United Kingdom Princess Beatrice.
As with his older siblings, Andrew was looked after by a governess, who was responsible for his early education at Buckingham Palace.
He was sent to Heatherdown School near Ascot, Berkshire Ascot in Berkshire.
In September 1973, he entered Gordonstoun, in northern Scotland, which his father and elder brother had attended before him.
While there, he spent six months—from January to June 1977—participating in an exchange programme to Lakefield College School in Canada.
He left Gordonstoun in July two years later with Advanced Level (UK) A-Levels
in English, history, economics, and political science. He did not go to university but instead entered the Britannia Royal Naval College at Dartmouth, Devon Dartmouth.
==Military service==

===Royal Navy===
The Royal Household announced in November 1978 that Prince Andrew would join the Royal Navy the following year. In December he underwent various sporting tests and examinations at the Officer and Aircrew Selection Centre Aircrew Selection Centre, at London Biggin Hill Airport RAF Biggin Hill, along with further tests and interviews at RNAS Lee-on-Solent (HMS Daedalus) HMS Daedalus, and interviews at the Admiralty Interview Board, HMS Sultan (establishment) HMS Sultan. During March and April 1979, the prince was enrolled at the Royal Naval College Flight, undergoing pilot training, until he was accepted as a trainee helicopter pilot and signed on for 12 years from 11 May 1979. On 1 September of the same year, Prince Andrew was appointed as a midshipman, and entered Britannia Royal Naval College, Dartmouth.
