{{Rick Perry series}}
James Richard "Rick" Perry (born March 4, 1950) is an American politician who is the 14th and current United States Secretary of Energy, serving in the Cabinet of Donald Trump. Prior to his cabinet position, Perry served as the List of Governors of Texas 47th Governor of Texas from December 2000 to January 2015. A Republican Party (United States) Republican, he was elected Lieutenant Governor of Texas in 1998 and assumed the governorship in December 2000 when Governor George W. Bush resigned to become President. Perry was the longest-serving Governor in Texas history.

Perry was elected three times to full gubernatorial terms and is the fourth Texas Governor (after Allan Shivers, Price Daniel and John Connally) to serve three terms. With a tenure in office of 14 years, 30 days, Perry was, at the time he left office, the second longest-serving current governor (after Terry Branstad of Iowa). Perry ran unsuccessfully for the Republican nomination for president in United States presidential election, 2012 2012 and United States presidential election, 2016 2016.

On December 14, 2016, President-elect Donald Trump announced his intention to nominate Perry as his United States Secretary of Energy Secretary of Energy. On March 2, 2017, he was confirmed by the United States Senate in a 62–37 vote.
==Early life==
A fifth-generation Texan, he was born on March 4, 1950, in Haskell, Texas, and raised in Paint Creek, Texas, the son of Dryland farming dryland cotton farmers Joseph Ray Perry and Amelia June Holt Perry. He has one older sister. Perrys ancestry is almost entirely English, dating as far back as the original Thirteen Colonies. His family has been in Texas since before the Texas Revolution.
His father, a Democratic Party (United States) Democrat, was a long-time Haskell County commissioner and school board member. Perry has said that his interest in politics probably began in November 1961, when his father took him to the funeral of U.S. Representative Sam Rayburn.
Perry was in the Boy Scouts of America Boy Scouts (BSA) and earned the rank of Eagle Scout (Boy Scouts of America) Eagle Scout.
The BSA has honored Perry with the Distinguished Eagle Scout Award.
Perry graduated from Paint Creek Independent School District Paint Creek High School in 1968.

===College===
Perry attended Texas A&amp;M University where he was a member of the Texas A&amp;M University Corps of Cadets Corps of Cadets and the Alpha Gamma Rho fraternity. He was elected senior class social secretary, and one of A&amp;Ms five Aggie Yell Leaders "yell leaders".
He graduated in 1972 with a Bachelor of Science degree in animal science.
In 1989, he said that "I was probably a bit of a free spirit, not particularly structured real well for life outside of a military regime, I would have not lasted at Texas Tech University Texas Tech or the University of Texas. I would have hit the fraternity scene and lasted about one semester."
