Sean Doherty Tucker (born April 27, 1952)
is an American aerobatics aerobatic pilot who is sponsored by the Oracle Corporation and performs in airshows worldwide as [http://www.teamoracle.com Team Oracle]. Tucker has won several airshow championship competitions throughout his career and was inducted into  the National Aviation Hall of Fame in 2008.
He currently serves as Chairman of the Experimental Aircraft Associations Young Eagles program.
== Career ==
File:120802-N-DI587-241 (7746606498).jpg thumb 120802-N-DI587-241 (7746606498) Sean Tucker flying inverted with the US Navy Blue Angels over Seattle
File:Tucker - Flickr - Beige Alert.jpg thumb Tucker - Flickr - Beige Alert Tucker flying under ribbons at EAA AirVenture in Oshkosh, Wisconsin
Sean Tucker, a native of Eagle Rock, Los Angeles Eagle Rock, California, earned his Pilot certification in the United States#Private pilot pilot’s certificate at age 17. His father, William, was an aviation industry lawyer who had learned to fly as part of his job.
Tucker started out as a cropduster, eventually starting a cropdusting business in Salinas, California.
In order to overcome his fear of crashing, he took an aerobatics course, through which he "found out you could roll an airplane upside down and it wouldnt fall out of the sky."
He has been flying airshows worldwide since the mid-1970s and is considered by many to be one of the world’s premier airshow performers. Tuckers favorite stunt is the "triple ribbon cut", where he uses his plane to cut three ribbons suspended between poles from three different angles.
Despite once having a fear of flying, Tucker has flown more than 1,000 performances at more than 425 airshows, in front of more than 80 million spectators.

Tuckers first sponsorship was with Randolph Sunglasses from 1993 through 1995, then in 1996 he transitioned to MCI Inc. MCI under the 1-800-COLLECT and 10-10-220 brands until his start with Oracle in 2001.

Team Oracle states Tucker has been named one of the Living Legends of Aviation, is the recipient of the Crystal Eagle Award, was an inductee at the 2001 USAF Gathering of Eagles, and in 2003 was named one of the Smithsonian National Air &amp; Space Museums 25 Living Legends of Flight.
To endure the extreme physical demands of his acrobatic flying routine, Tucker maintains a rigorous physical training schedule, working out more than 340 days per year in a routine of jogging and weightlifting on alternating days. His other physical activities include mountain climbing, heli-skiing, cave SCUBA diving, and golfing. When asked about flying airshows, Tucker has said, "I like to think that I bring the fans dreams of flying into the plane with me and theres nowhere I’d rather be than in the cockpit. That’s why I train so hard to keep a finely tuned edge."

Tucker’s self-proclaimed goal is to "share the magic of flight with Team Oracle’s guests by inspiring and thrilling them. I want them to go away saying that the airshow was one of the most engaging days of their lives."

He is one of only a handful of civilian performers who have been allowed to fly close formation with the Blue Angels and the U.S. Air Force Thunderbirds Thunderbirds.
In 2013, Tucker was appointed Chairman of the Experimental Aircraft Association (EAA) program Young Eagles, which introduces and educates children aged 8 to 17 about aviation. It has given flights to over 2 million children around the world. Tucker is an annual fixture at the EAA AirVenture Oshkosh airshow each summer. At the 2016 event, Tucker was joined by past EAA Young Eagles chairmen Harrison Ford, Chesley Sullenberger and Jeff Skiles as they flew the 2 millionth Young Eagle.
== Tucker’s airplane ==
Image:Oracle Challenger-II.jpg thumb Oracle Challenger II
Tuckers airplane, the Oracle Challenger III biplane, is claimed to produce more than 400 horsepower, and weighs only 1,200 pounds. The Challenger III is equipped with a unique set of wings that use 8 ailerons instead of 4. The tail on the airplane is modeled after the tail used on high-performance radio control airplanes.

==Accidents==
Tuckers first accident occurred in 1979, when he had to parachute out of his disabled aerobatic airplane.
In 1993, as he was climbing out of the parked stunt plane he used at the time, a Pitts Special Pitts S-2S biplane, a runaway aircraft on the ground collided with his aircraft. Tucker escaped unscathed, but damage to the wings on one side of his aircraft took ten days to repair.
In 2006, the elevator (pitch control) system in Tuckers aerobatic aircraft broke during a practice aerobatic flight, forcing him to Parachute bail out over an empty farm field in Coushatta, Louisiana. He was uninjured, but the aircraft he was flying was destroyed.
== Tutima Academy ==
In 1997, Tucker started the Sean D. Tucker School of Aerobatic Flight, with the stated aim of setting and spreading the standard for aviation safety in aerobatics and aviation at large. In 2004, through a partnership with the Tutima Watch Company, the school became the [http://www.tutimaacademy.com Tutima Academy of Aviation Safety]. The Academy, located in King City, California, offers a variety of courses including stall/spin recognition and recovery training, aerobatic proficiency training, a low-level aerobatic mentorship program, and formation aerobatic flight training.
== Popular culture ==
In 2009, Tucker was featured on the Oprah Winfrey Show.
The segment featured an interview with Oprah Winfrey and a video segment where Tucker took a 29-year-old woman on an aerobatic flight to conquer her fear of flying.

In 2014, he and Harrison Ford starred in and framed Flying the Feathered Edge: The Bob Hoover Project, an independent aviation documentary detailing the life of aerobatic legend Bob Hoover.
In 2015, CNN featured Tucker in a story titled "Does this man have the most dangerous job in America?".
== Awards and recognition ==
Image:SEAN TUCKER.JPG thumb Tucker performing at the Cleveland National Air Show in 1999
*Second recipient and first non-namesake recipient of the Bob Hoover R.A. "Bob" Hoover Trophy (chosen by Hoover himself) - 2017
*Lloyd P. Nolen Lifetime Achievement in Aviation Award - 2016
*EAA AirVenture Freedom of Flight Award - 2010
*General Chuck Yeager Charles E. Yeager International Aeronautical Achievement Award  - 2010
*San Diego Air &amp; Space Museums International Air &amp; Space Hall of Fame - 2009
*National Aviation Hall of Fame (NAHF) – 2008
