James Stephen "Steve" Fossett (April 22, 1944 – September 3, 2007) was an American businessman and a record-setting aviator, sailor, and adventurer. He was the first person to fly solo nonstop around the world in a balloon. He made his fortune in the financial services industry and was best known for many world records, including five nonstop List of circumnavigations circumnavigations of the Earth: as a long-distance solo hot air balloon balloonist, as a sailor, and as a solo flight fixed-wing aircraft pilot.

A fellow of the Royal Geographical Society and the Explorers Club, Fossett set more than one hundred records{{vs date=May 2015}} in five different sports, sixty of which still stood at the time of his death.
Fossett disappeared on September 3, 2007 while flying a light aircraft over the Great Basin Desert, between Nevada and California. Extensive searches proved unsuccessful, and he was declared death in absentia declared legally dead in February of the following year.

In September 2008, a hiker found Fossetts identification cards  in the Sierra Nevada (U.S.) Sierra Nevada Mountains, California, leading shortly after to the discovery of the planes wreckage. Fossetts only known remains, two large bones, were found half a mile from the crash site, probably scattered by wild animals.
==Early years==
Fossett was born in Jackson, Tennessee and grew up in Garden Grove, California, where he graduated from Garden Grove High School.
Fossetts interest in adventure began early. As a Boy Scout, he grew up climbing the mountains of California, beginning with the San Jacinto Mountains.
"When I was 12 years old I climbed my first mountain, and I just kept going, taking on more diverse and grander projects."
Fossett said that he did not have a natural gift for athletics or team sports, so he focused on activities that required persistence and endurance.
His father, an Eagle Scout (Boy Scouts of America) Eagle Scout, encouraged Fossett to pursue these types of adventures and encouraged him to become involved with the Boy Scouts early.
He became an active member of Troop 170 in Orange, California. At age 13,
Fossett earned the Boy Scouts highest rank of Eagle Scout.
He was a Vigil Honor member of the Order of the Arrow, the Boy Scouts honor society, where he served as lodge chief.
