Susan Oliver (born Charlotte Gercke, February 13, 1932 – May 10, 1990) was an American actress, television director and Pilot (aeronautics) aviator.

==Early life and family==
Susan Oliver was born the daughter of George Gercke, journalist, and Ruth Hale Oliver, an astrology practitioner, in New York City in 1932. Her father was a political reporter and journalist for the New York World. Her parents divorced when she was still a child. In June 1949, Oliver joined her mother in Southern California, where Ruth was in the process of becoming a well known Hollywood astrologer. Oliver made a decision to embark upon a career as an actress and chose the stage name Susan Oliver.
==Career==

===Early years===
By September 1949 and using her new name, Oliver returned to the East Coast of the United States East Coast to begin drama studies at Swarthmore College, followed by professional training at the Neighborhood Playhouse School of the Theatre in New York City. After working in summer stock, regional theater and in unbilled bits in daytime and primetime TV shows and commercials, she made her first major television appearance in a supporting role in the July 31, 1955, episode of the live drama series Goodyear TV Playhouse, and quickly progressed to leading parts in other shows.

Oliver did numerous TV shows in 1957, and appeared on stage. She began the year with an Ingenue (stock character) ingenue part, as the daughter of an 18th-century Manhattan family, in her first Broadway play, Small War on Murray Hill, a Robert E. Sherwood comedy.
That same year, Oliver replaced Mary Ure as the female lead in the Broadway production of John Osbornes play Look Back in Anger.

The plays short run was immediately followed by larger roles in live TV plays on Kaiser Aluminum Hour, The United States Steel Hour and Matinee Theater. Oliver then went to Hollywood, Los Angeles, California Hollywood, where she appeared in the November 14, 1957, episode of Climax! (TV series) Climax!, one of the few live drama series based on the West Coast of the United States West Coast, as well as in a number of filmed shows, including one of the first episodes of NBCs Wagon Train, Father Knows Best, The Americans (1961 TV series) The Americans, and Johnny Staccato.

In July 1957, Oliver was chosen for the title role in her first motion picture, The Green-Eyed Blonde, a low-budget independent film independent melodrama scripted by Dalton Trumbo (under a pseudonym), and released by Warner Bros. in December on the bottom half of a double bill.
It is the only motion picture on which Oliver received top billing.

In mid-1958, Oliver began rehearsals for a co-starring role in Patate, her second Broadway play.
Its seven performance run was even shorter than that of Small War on Murray Hill, but won Oliver a Theatre World Award for "Outstanding Breakout Performance;" it was her last Broadway appearance.

===Television and films===
File:Gardner McKay Susan Oliver Guy Stockwell Adventures in Paradise 1961.JPG right thumb 300px With Gardner McKay and Guy Stockwell in Adventures in Paradise (TV series) Adventures in Paradise (1961)
On April 6, 1960, the 28-year-old Oliver played a spoiled young runaway, Maggie Hamilton, in "The Maggie Hamilton Story" on NBCs Wagon Train. Flint McCullough, played by Robert Horton (actor) Robert Horton, searches for her so the wagon train can proceed on schedule.
On November 9, 1960, she was cast as the lead guest star in "The Cathy Eckhart Story" on Wagon Train, with husband-and-wife actors John Larch and Vivi Janiss as Ben and Sarah Harness.

Oliver was cast in the 1960 episode of The Deputy (TV series) The Deputy as the long-lost daughter of star Henry Fondas late girl friend, and appeared in Dick Powells Zane Grey Theatre episode "Knife of Hate" as Susan Pittman. In 1961, Oliver played the part of Laurie Evans in the episode "Incident of His Brothers Keeper" on CBSs Rawhide (TV series) Rawhide, and in 1963, she played Judy Hall in the episode "Incident at Spider Rock", Also in 1962 Oliver appeared as Jeanie in the television series Laramie (TV series) Laramie in the episode "Shadows in the Dust".

Oliver was cast in episodes of Adventures in Paradise (TV series) Adventures in Paradise, The Twilight Zone (1959 TV series) Twilight Zone, Route 66 (TV series) Route 66, Dr. Kildare, The Naked City, The Barbara Stanwyck Show, Burkes Law (1963 TV series) Burkes Law, The Fugitive (TV series) The Fugitive, Gomer Pyle, U.S.M.C., I Spy (1965 TV series) I Spy, The Virginian (TV series) The Virginian, and The Name of the Game (TV series) The Name of the Game. She made one appearance on The Andy Griffith Show and ABCs family western series, The Travels of Jaimie McPheeters (TV series) The Travels of Jaimie McPheeters. She also made two appearances in "The Invaders" (eps. "Inquisition" and "The Ivy Curtain").

Her most challenging role during this time was as the ambitious wife of doomed country music legend Hank Williams (George Hamilton) in Your Cheatin Heart (film) Your Cheatin Heart (1964). The same year she also starred opposite Jerry Lewis in The Disorderly Orderly, and also appeared in The Man from U.N.C.L.E (1965), and The Love-Ins (1967) with Richard Todd.

Oliver appeared in television films including Carters Army. Oliver had a continuing role as Ann Howard on American Broadcasting Company ABCs prime-time serial Peyton Place (TV series) Peyton Place in 1966.

Oliver played the female lead character Vina in "The Cage (Star Trek: The Original Series) The Cage" (1964), which was the first pilot of Gene Roddenberrys new show, Star Trek: The Original Series Star Trek. Two years later, Olivers performance was re-used in the first season, two-part episode "The Menagerie (Star Trek: The Original Series) The Menagerie" (1966). The framing device was needed because of significant format and cast changes, in particular Jeffrey Hunter played "Captain Christopher Pike" in the pilot episode, but William Shatner became the new captain of the Starship Enterprise when the series was green-lit in 1966.
For the fantasy sequence in the pilot, in which her character appeared as an "Orion slave girl", Oliver was covered in green makeup all over her body, and a dark brunette wig.
A still of her with green skin is frequently seen in the end credits of the TV series, and it became an iconic image of Star Trek. Hence the documentary about Susan Olivers life in 2014 was titled The Green Girl.
From 1975 to 1976, Oliver was a regular cast member of the TV soap opera Days of Our Lives. In 1976, she received her only Emmy Award Emmy Award nomination (for "Outstanding Performance by a Supporting Actress") in the three-hour-long made-for-TV movie Amelia Earhart, broadcast on October 15, 1976 on NBC-TV.

In addition to her scores of television appearances, Oliver also had roles in several theatrical features including The Gene Krupa Story (1959), BUtterfield 8 (1960), and The Caretakers (1963).
===Directing and later years===
By the late 1970s with acting assignments becoming scarcer, Oliver turned to directing. She was one of the original 19 women admitted to the American Film Institutes Directing Workshop for Women (AFI DWW) "who, upon her early death, left a good chunk of funding for the DWW."
In 1977, she wrote and directed Cowboysan, her AFI DWW short film which presents the fantasy scenario of a Japanese actor and actress playing leads in an American western (genre) western. Oliver directed two TV episodes, the October 25, 1982 installment of M*A*S*H (TV series) M*A*S*H and the December 4, 1983 entry of one of its sequel series, Trapper John, M.D..
In Olivers last fully active years, she also appeared in the February 21, 1985 episode of Magnum, P.I., two episodes of Murder, She Wrote (March 31 and December 1), the February 12, 1987 episode of Simon &amp; Simon, and the January 10, 1988 episode of the NBC domestic drama Our House (1986 TV series) Our House. She made her last onscreen appearance in the November 6, 1988 episode of the syndicated horror anthology Freddys Nightmares. During her career in Hollywood, Oliver appeared in more than one hundred television programs.
==Aviator and author==
Oliver experienced an event in February 1959 that underscored her later aviation accomplishments. She was a passenger aboard Pan Am Flight 115, a Boeing 707 on a transatlantic flight from Paris to New York City when it dropped from {{convert 35000 ft}} to {{convert 6000 ft}}. It was February 3, 1959, the same day Buddy Holly died in an airplane crash. These events caused her to avoid flying for the next year, even turning down job offers (with the exception of auditioning for BUtterfield 8) if they were so short notice she could only travel by air. She eventually underwent hypnosis to overcome her fear of flying.
