}}
Thomas Cruise Mapother IV (born July 3, 1962), best known by his stage name Tom Cruise, is an American actor and producer.
<!-- Be careful to NOT treat Scientology as an occupation. See the talk page section: Scientology not in first sentence because its "not an occupation."  -->
He started his career at age 19 in the film Endless Love (1981 film) Endless Love (1981), before making his breakthrough in the comedy Risky Business (1983) and receiving widespread attention for starring in the action drama Top Gun (1986) as Lieutenant Pete "Maverick" Mitchell. After starring in The Color of Money (1986) and Cocktail (1988 film) Cocktail (1988), Cruise starred opposite Dustin Hoffman in the Academy Award for Best Picture-winning drama Rain Man. For his role as anti-war activist Ron Kovic in the drama Born on the Fourth of July (film) Born on the Fourth of July (1989), Cruise received the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Drama and his first Academy Award for Best Actor nomination.

In the 1990s, Cruise starred with Jack Nicholson in the legal drama A Few Good Men (1992) and starred in a number of box office hits including The Firm (1993 film) The Firm (1993) and Interview with the Vampire (film) Interview with the Vampire (1994), before starring as IMF agent Ethan Hunt in the action spy thriller Mission: Impossible (film) Mission: Impossible (1996), the first of a commercially successful six-film series. In 1996, Cruise also starred as the title character in the romantic comedy-drama Jerry Maguire, earning him the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy and his second Academy Award nomination. In 1999, Cruise starred in the erotic thriller Eyes Wide Shut opposite his then wife Nicole Kidman and also appeared in the ensemble drama Magnolia (film) Magnolia, for which he received the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor – Motion Picture and was also nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.

After receiving a Saturn Award for Best Actor for his performance in the psychological thriller Vanilla Sky (2001), Cruise collaborated with director Steven Spielberg on the science fiction thrillers Minority Report (film) Minority Report (2002) and War of the Worlds (2005 film) War of the Worlds (2005). In 2008, he gave a supporting performance in the action comedy Tropic Thunder and starred in the historical thriller Valkyrie (film) Valkyrie as Claus von Stauffenberg. In 2012, Cruise played the Jack Reacher eponymous role in the thriller Jack Reacher (film) Jack Reacher. Cruises films have grossed more than $3.7 billion at U.S. and Canadian box offices and more than $9.0 billion worldwide,
making him the eighth highest-grossing actor in North America and one of the top-grossing actors worldwide.
Cruise has been married three times, to actresses Mimi Rogers, Nicole Kidman, Katie Holmes, and has three children, two of which were adopted during his marriage to Kidman and has one biological daughter with Holmes, whom he divorced from in 2012. Cruise is an outspoken advocate for the Church of Scientology and its associated social programs, and credits it with helping him overcome dyslexia. In the 2000s, his Church-affiliated criticisms of psychiatry and anti-depressant drugs, particularly for September 11 attacks 9/11 Rescue workers in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attacks rescue workers, and his efforts to promote Scientology as a religion in Europe sparked controversies, as did a Project Chanology#Tom Cruise video leaked video interview of him promoting Scientology.

==Early life==
Cruise was born in Syracuse, New York, the son of Mary Lee (née Pfeiffer), a special education teacher, and Thomas Cruise Mapother III,
an electrical engineer, both originally from Louisville, Kentucky.
He has three sisters: Lee Anne, Marian, and Cass. They are of English, German, and Irish ancestry.
One of Cruises paternal great-great-great-grandfathers, Patrick Russell Cruise, was born in north County Dublin in 1799; he married Teresa Johnson in County Meath, in 1825. They left Ireland for the United States that same year and settled in New York.
They had a daughter, Mary Paulina Russell Cruise, whose son Thomas Cruise Mapother was Cruises great-grandfather.
A cousin, William Mapother, is also an actor; he and Cruise have appeared in five films together.
Cruise grew up in near poverty, and had a Catholic upbringing. The family was dominated by his abusive father, whom Cruise has described as "a merchant of chaos."
Cruise has said that he was beaten by his father, whom he has called a "bully and coward." He stated, "He was the kind of person where, if something goes wrong, they kick you. It was a great lesson in my life—how hed lull you in, make you feel safe and then, bang! For me, it was like, Theres something wrong with this guy. Dont trust him. Be careful around him."
Cruise spent part of his childhood in Canada. His family moved to Beacon Hill, Ottawa, in late 1971 so that Cruises father could take a position as a defense consultant with the Canadian Forces Canadian Armed Forces.
There, Cruise attended the newly opened Robert Hopkins Public School for much of grade four and grade five.
In grade four, Cruise first became involved in drama, under the tutelage of George Steinburg. Cruise and six other boys put on an improvised play to music called IT at the Carleton Elementary School drama festival.
Drama organizer Val Wright, who was in the audience that night, reflected, "The movement and improvisation were excellent. It was a classic ensemble piece."
Cruise also enjoyed sports at the school and played floor hockey, though he was known more for his aggression than his talent.{{Citation needed date=March 2016}}

In sixth grade, Cruise went to Henry Munro Middle School in Ottawa Ottawa, Canada. However, in the spring of that year, Cruises mother left his father, taking Cruise and his sisters back to the United States.
His father died of cancer in 1984.
Cruise briefly attended a Franciscan seminary in Cincinnati, Ohio, on a church scholarship and aspired to become a Catholic priest, before his interest in acting.
{{rp 24–26}} In his senior year, he played American football football for the varsity team as a linebacker, but he was cut from the squad after getting caught drinking beer before a game.
