}}

Werner Voss ({{Lang-de Werner Voß}}) (13 April 1897 – 23 September 1917) was a World War I German flying ace credited with 48 aerial victories.

Voss, a Dyer (occupation) dyers son from Krefeld, was a patriotic young man even while still in school. He began his military career in November 1914 as a 17‑year‑old Hussar. After turning to aviation, he proved to be a natural pilot. After flight school and six months in a bomber unit, he joined a newly formed fighter squadron, Jagdstaffel 2 on 21 November 1916. There he became friends with Manfred von Richthofen.

By 6 April 1917, Voss had scored 24 victories and awarded Germanys highest award, the Pour le Mérite. The medals mandatory months leave removed Voss from the battlefield during Bloody April; in his absence, Richthofen scored 13 victories. Nevertheless, Richthofen regarded Voss as his only possible rival as top scoring ace of the war.

Soon after Voss returned from leave, he was at odds with his squadron commander. He was detailed from his squadron to evaluate new fighter aircraft and became enthusiastic about the Fokker Dr.1 Fokker Triplane. After transferring through three temporary squadron commands in two months, Voss was given command of Jagdstaffel 10 on 30 July 1917 at Richthofens request. By now, his victory total was 34.

His last stand came on 23 September 1917, just hours after his 48th victory. After he fell in solo opposition to eight British aces, he was described by his preeminent foe, James McCudden, as "the bravest German airman".

==Early life and entry into military service==
Werner Voss was born in Krefeld, Germany, on 13 April 1897. His mother, Johanna Mathilde Pastor Voss, was a pious homemaker who raised her children in the Evangelical Lutheran faith. His father Maxmilian owned a dye factory. Werner was soon followed by two brothers; Maxmilian Jr. was born in 1898, and Otto on 22 April 1901. An unusual feature of the Voss household was the presence of two first cousins, Margaret and Katherine. The elder Vosses longed for daughters, so they virtually (if not formally) adopted their nieces. The two nieces were commonly referred to within the family as "daughters" and "sisters".
The Voss family home at 75 Blumenthalstrasse was a comfortable two-storey house with surrounding grounds. Young Werner was expected to carry on the family trade as he grew into his heritage.
However, even before World War I burgeoned, he was already drawn towards patriotic service. When he finished his schooling at Krefelds Gymnasium (Germany) Moltke Gymnasium,
