Adam Carolla ({{IPAc-en k ə ˈ r ɒ l ə}}; born May 27, 1964)
is an American comedian, radio personality, television host, actor, podcaster, and director. He hosts The Adam Carolla Show (podcast) The Adam Carolla Show, a talk show distributed as a podcast which set the record as the "most downloaded podcast" as judged by Guinness World Records in 2011.
Carolla co-hosted the syndicated radio call-in program Loveline from 1995 to 2005 as well as the shows television incarnation on MTV from 1996 to 2000. He was the co-host and co-creator of the television program The Man Show (1999–2004), and the co-creator and a regular performer on the television show Crank Yankers (2002–2007). He hosted The Adam Carolla Project, a home improvement television program which aired on TLC (TV channel) TLC in 2005 and The Car Show on Speed TV
in 2011.

Carolla has also appeared on the network Reality television#Reality competition/game shows reality television programs Dancing with the Stars (U.S. season 6) Dancing with the Stars and The Apprentice (U.S. season 12) The Celebrity Apprentice. His book In Fifty Years Well All Be Chicks debuted on The New York Times The New York Times Best Seller list Best Seller list in 2010, and his second book, Not Taco Bell Material, also reached New York Times bestseller status.
Carolla has made numerous guest appearances on political talk shows as a commentator. He hosted a weekly segment, "Rollin with Carolla", on Bill OReilly (political commentator) Bill OReillys The OReilly Factor.

==Early life==
Adam Carolla was born in Los Angeles County, California.
His mothers maiden name was McCall.
His parents separated when Adam was young.
Carolla was not given a middle name by his parents; on his drivers license application he listed his middle name as "Lakers" as a joke. The application was processed without notice.
His maternal step-grandfather was screenwriter László Görög (writer) László Görög, who wrote The Mole People (film) The Mole People.
Adam was raised in the North Hollywood, Los Angeles North Hollywood neighborhood of Los Angeles. He attended Colfax Elementary School, Walter Reed Middle School Walter Reed Junior High, and North Hollywood High School. Carolla did not receive his high school diploma until years later as it was held by the school until a library fine was paid.
Carolla can be seen paying off the book and receiving his diploma in an episode of his 2005 television show, The Adam Carolla Project.
During his earlier years, Carolla played Pop Warner Little Scholars Pop Warner American football football for seven years; he later suggested that being involved in sports saved him from a chaotic home life.
During his senior year at North Hollywood High School, Carolla distinguished himself in football. In December 1981, he was named to the First Team Offensive Line, Central Valley League, one of 8 leagues at the time in the LA City Section of the California Interscholastic Federation.
He began living on his own at the age of 18. He briefly attended Los Angeles Valley College, a community college, where he was placed on academic probation before dropping out to work in a series of jobs, including carpet cleaner,
carpenter, boxing instructor,
and traffic school instructor.
Although broke, Carolla, his friends, and roommates owned a 1963 Cadillac limousine.
In the early 1990s, Carolla studied improvisational comedy with The Groundlings and was a member of the ACME Comedy Theatre troupe.
==Radio==
In 1994, Carolla volunteered his services as a boxing trainer to prepare Jimmy Kimmel for a bout being staged by KROQ-FMs morning radio program Kevin and Bean.
Kimmel was a regular on the show as "Jimmy the Sports Guy" and he was set to fight another KROQ personality in a boxing exhibition which was being billed as the "Bleeda in Reseda."
Carolla parlayed this opportunity into a long-running friendship and business partnership with Kimmel as well as a recurring role on Kevin and Bean as cranky woodshop teacher, Mr. Birchum.
===Loveline===
In October 1995, after being signed to the William Morris Endeavor William Morris Agency by Mark Itkin,
Carolla was offered the job of co-hosting the radio call-in show Loveline. His co-hosts were the physician Drew Pinsky ("Dr. Drew") and Riki Rachtman. Carolla received the offer after Pinsky heard him on Kevin and Bean
(Rachtman left the show the following year.)
Loveline is broadcast on KROQ-FM in Los Angeles and is syndicated nationwide on the Westwood One (1976–2011) Westwood One radio network.

While the format of the program was primarily a call-in show where listeners would ask questions about sex and relationships, Carolla would often spend much of the show ranting about various topics, from fart jokes to extended parodies of radio morning shows, including mocking the formats penchant for useless and repetitive weather and traffic reports. In contrast to the reserved, thoughtful Pinsky, Carolla served as the loud, funny side of the show. Carollas character was described by one reviewer as "a toned-down version of Howard Stern minus the huge ego".
On September 25, 2001 Carolla and Jimmy Kimmel both had filled in for Howard Sterns head writer Jackie Martling after Martlings departure from the show in March 2001. Carolla had mentioned in various interviews and on his podcast that he was offered the job to replace Jackie Martling, but turned it down primarily due to Sterns show being located in New York as well as his commitment to Loveline.

===The Adam Carolla Show===
{{Main The Adam Carolla Show (radio)}}
In October 2005, Carolla was announced as the host of a new morning radio show on the Infinity Broadcasting Corporation Infinity Broadcasting network. His new show would replace the popular syndicated The Howard Stern Show Howard Stern Show (which was moving to satellite radio) in twelve of the 27 markets in which Stern had been broadcast including Los Angeles, Las Vegas, San Francisco, San Diego, Phoenix, Arizona Phoenix, and Portland, Oregon.
The Adam Carolla Show debuted in January 2006.

In early 2009, actor Gerard Butler sat in and observed Adam Carolla on The Adam Carolla Show (terrestrial radio) The Adam Carolla Show in order to prepare for his role in The Ugly Truth as the cynical and crass talk-radio host
Mike Chadway allegedly based on Adam Carolla.

On February 18, 2009, The Adam Carolla Show (radio) The Adam Carolla Show was canceled as part of a format switch at KAMP-FM KLSX to AMP FM, a new top 40 station. The final show was Friday, February 20, 2009.
===The Adam Carolla Podcast===
{{Main The Adam Carolla Show (podcast)}}
Carolla started a daily podcast on February 23, 2009, at his personal website, which would evolve into the ACE Broadcasting Network. The first Adam Carolla podcast was downloaded more than 250,000 times in the initial 24 hours, and by the third podcast, it was the number one podcast on iTunes in both the U.S. and Canada.
During the debut week, the Adam Carolla podcast recorded 1.6 million downloads. In the second week it recorded 2.4 million downloads. By the fourth episode of the second week, featuring former The Adam Carolla Show (terrestrial radio) Adam Carolla Show sidekick Dave Dameshek, the show was downloaded more than 500,000 times.
Adam stated that Bandwidth (computing) bandwidth cost more than $9,000 a month as of May 2009.
At the end of 2009, The Adam Carolla Podcast was selected by iTunes for its end-of-the-year awards as the Best Audio Podcast of 2009.
On May 18, 2011, Carolla made the claim on Jimmy Kimmel Live! that The Adam Carolla Show had taken the Guinness World Record for the most downloaded podcast ever from Ricky Gervais
after he claims it received 59,574,843 unique downloads from March 2009 to March 16, 2011.
In a case that has been referred to as patent trolling, patent holding company Personal Audio LLC (Patent holding company) Personal Audio sued, among others, Adam Carolla,
claiming a patent on "an audio program and message distribution system in which a host system organizes and transmits program segments to client subscriber locations".
==Television==

=== 1999 through 2004 ===
After co-hosting (with Dr. Drew) a television version of Loveline on MTV during the late 1990s, Carolla began his first original television series with The Man Show, along with partner and friend Jimmy Kimmel, on Comedy Central from 1999 to 2003. He left The Man Show at the same time as Kimmel. Carolla has continued his work with Kimmel as a writer and guest on Jimmy Kimmel Live!. He also appeared on an episode of Space Ghost Coast to Coast around this time.

Carolla and partner Daniel Kellison are the heads of Jackhole Productions. The two created the television show Crank Yankers for Comedy Central, which revived the Mr. Birchum character. (The show premiered in 2002 on Comedy Central and returned to MTV2 on February 9, 2007, running again until March 30, 2007. The show screened in Australia on SBS Television and The Comedy Channel between 2003 and 2008.)

=== 2005 through 2008 ===
From August 2005 to November 2005, Carolla hosted the talk show Too Late with Adam Carolla on Comedy Central.

Also in 2005, Carolla was featured in a home remodeling program called The Adam Carolla Project wherein he and a crew of old friends renovated his childhood home. The 13 episodes aired on the cable channel TLC (The Learning Channel) from October through December 2005. The house was then sold for 1.2 million dollars.
In 2006, Carolla appeared on the special summer series Gameshow Marathon (US TV series) Gameshow Marathon as a celebrity panelist on the Match Game episode.

On the February 18, 2008 broadcast of his radio show, Carolla announced that he would be one of the contestants on the next season of Dancing with the Stars (U.S. TV series) Dancing with the Stars. Later in the broadcast, it was revealed to Adam that his partner would be Julianne Hough.
He was voted off on the April 8, 2008 episode after his performance of the Paso Doble, after incorporating a demonstration of unicycle riding in his dance routine.

;Dancing with the Stars performances
{  class="wikitable" style="float:left;"
 - style="text-align:Center; background:#ccc; background:#ccc;"
  rowspan=2 Week #
  rowspan=2 Dance/Song
  colspan=3 Judges score
  rowspan=2 Result
 - style="text-align:center; background:#ccc; background:#ccc;"
  style="width:10%; " Inaba
  style="width:10%; " Goodman
  style="width:10%; " Tonioli
 - style="text-align:center; background:#faf6f6; background:#faf6f6;"
  1
  Foxtrot/ "Mellow Yellow"
  5
  5
  5
  N/A
 - style="text-align:center; background:#faf6f6;"
  2
  Mambo (dance) Mambo/ "Andy Williams House of Bamboo"
  6
  7
  6
  Safe
 - style="text-align:center; background:#faf6f6;"
  3
  Tango (ballroom) Tango/ "I Cant Tell a Waltz from a Tango"
  7
  7
  7
  Safe
 - style="text-align:center; background:#faf6f6;"
  4
  Paso Doble/ "James Horner Plaza of Execution"
  6
  7
  6
  Eliminated
 }{{Clear}}

On June 16, 2008 Carolla was selected to host a pilot
of an American version of the popular BBC show Top Gear (U.S. TV series) Top Gear for NBC. In December 2008, NBC decided not to pick up the show.
=== 2009 to present ===
On February 21, 2009, a day after his Los Angeles-based morning radio show was canceled – as part of a format change at KLSX-FM – CBS ordered a comedy pilot starring the actor/comedian. Ace in the Hole was to star Carolla as a husband and father who works as a driving instructor. Carolla created and wrote the pilot with Kevin Hench ("Jimmy Kimmel Live!").
Carolla stated that Pamela Adlon was to play his wife and Windell Middlebrooks of the Miller High Life commercial fame will play his best friend. During his March 30, 2009, podcast, Carolla briefly described the show as being "All in the Family, essentially", with Carolla playing a similar role to that of Archie Bunker. On the July 23, 2009, episode of the Adam Carolla Podcast, Carolla announced that CBS was not picking up the pilot for the 2009 season, "in any way, shape or form."

On October 22, 2009, it was reported in Variety that Carolla had struck a deal with NBC to produce a half-hour pilot for a sitcom. The report was later confirmed on January 4, 2010, and was the first comedy pilot ordered by NBC for the season.
The untitled project, written by Carolla and Kevin Hench, was a single-camera endeavor that starred Carolla as a contractor and father who attempts to rebuild his life after his wife leaves him.
Carolla was set to executive produce the NBC project along with frequent collaborators Kimmel and Hench, as well as his agent James "Babydoll" Dixon, Jon Pollack from 30 Rock, Gail Berman, Daniel Kellison, and Lloyd Braun. Universal Media Studios, BermanBraun, and Carolla and Jimmy Kimmels own Jackhole Industries.
On the February 13, 2010 episode of Carollas CarCast podcast, he broke the news that The History Channel had picked up Top Gear US, which NBC had decided against in 2008.
On the March 26, 2010, episode of CarCast, Carolla said that he would not be co-hosting Top Gear US because of scheduling conflicts with his NBC sitcom project. In June 2010, Carolla said that his NBC pilot had not been picked up and was now "dead."
Premiering on February 19, 2012, Carolla was also one of the contestants in the 12th season of NBCs The Apprentice (U.S. season 12) The Celebrity Apprentice. He was fired in Week 4, because Trump perceived that Carolla did not utilize Andrettis car background during a Buick presentation, even though it was clear that Andretti did not like public speaking.

==== The Car Show ====
Carollas The Car Show debuted on Speed TV July 13, 2011. Appearing Wednesdays at 10 pm Eastern, it featured Carolla as the host, along with Dan Neil, John Salley, and Matt Farah. It had a format similar to Top Gear (2002 TV series) Top Gear, mixing car reviews, tests and humor. The show was initially met with largely positive reviews from car enthusiasts and comedy fans. Talk show host and comedian Jay Leno called The Car Show, "...a lot of fun."
The Car Show was cancelled after one season, after undergoing format changes due to low ratings, as Carolla mentioned on his podcast January 13, 2012.

==== Catch a Contractor ====
Catch a Contractor is a non-scripted, original series on Spike (TV network) Spike, hosted by Adam Carolla along with "no-nonsense contractor" Skip Bedell and his wife, investigator Alison Bedell. Together they expose crooked contractors and seek retribution for wronged homeowners.
The show premiered on March 9, 2014, to 1.2 million viewers, the largest audience for a series debut on Spike since Coal in March 2011.  The show was cancelled in 2015.
==== Adam Carolla and Friends Build Stuff Live ====
Premiering on Spike TV on March 14, 2017, Adam Carolla and Friends Build Stuff Live features Carolla building projects live and in studio with some of his Hollywood friends, and tackling viewers home improvement projects via social media.
=== Voice acting ===
Carolla has also done voice acting on cartoons, including Buzz Lightyear of Star Command#Other personnel Commander Nebula on the Disney Channel Disney animated series Buzz Lightyear of Star Command, Death (personification) Death on Family Guy (replacing Norm Macdonald) and Spanky Ham on Drawn Together. He was also the voice of a police officer, Winchells Donuts Wynchell, who was also an Éclair (pastry) éclair, in the Disney film Wreck-It Ralph. In 2008 and 2009, he was the spokesperson for T.G.I. Fridays.

==Film==
In 2003, he appeared in Windy City Heat as himself.
In 2006, Carolla finished work on The Hammer (2007 film) The Hammer, a semi-autobiographical independent film he co-wrote and co-produced, in which he stars opposite Heather Juergensen. The film is based loosely on his own life and is filmed at a gym he helped build with his co-star, Ozzie, played by Oswaldo Castillo, his friend in real life whom he met while building the gym when they both worked in construction.
The film made its world premiere at the 2007 Tribeca Film Festival in New York City and shortly thereafter received a positive review in Variety.
The film was released on March 21, 2008.
The film is rated 80% on Rotten Tomatoes.
Adam made a short appearance in Jeff Balis Still Waiting... (a sequel to Waiting... (film) Waiting...) playing a pick-up artist guru.

Adam helped write an unproduced screenplay for a movie entitled Deaf Frat Guy: Showdown at Havasu.
He is the voice of Virgil in the independent short film Save Virgil.

In July 2013, Carolla used crowdfunding for Road Hard; a film he directed and starred in, about the lives of aging road comics. Adam confirmed through a press conference that the film would co-star David Alan Grier, Illeana Douglas, Diane Farr, and Larry Miller (comedian) Larry Miller.
It had limited theatrical release in the United States.  Several minutes of the credits are devoted to listing the names of those who helped crowdfund the movie.

Carolla also directed the documentary Winning: The Racing Life of Paul Newman on the 35-year car racing career of Paul Newman. The documentary showcases Newmans racing life as both a prolific driver and owner.

In 2017, Carolla and Dennis Prager began filming No Safe Spaces, a documentary about political correctness at universities.
===Filmography===
{  class="wikitable"
 -
! Year !! Title 
 -
  2007    The Hammer (2007 film) The Hammer 
 -
  2015    Road Hard  
 -
  2015    Winning: The Racing Life of Paul Newman 
 -
  2016    The 24 Hour War 
 -
  2017    No Safe Spaces 
 }

==Books==
Carolla and Drew Pinsky co-wrote (with Marshall Fine) the self-help book The Dr. Drew and Adam Book: A Survival Guide to Life and Love, published in 1998.
The book is a compilation of some of the advice the pair compiled while producing Loveline.
In November 2010, Carollas In Fifty Years Well All Be Chicks... And Other Complaints from an Angry Middle-Aged White Guy was published by Crown Publishing Group Crown Archetype and debuted at number eight on the The New York Times Best Seller list New York Times{{}} Best Seller list for hardcover non-fiction on November 21, 2010.
The book was compiled from rants Carolla had delivered on his radio show and podcast along with some new material and was dictated to and ghostwriter ghost-written by Mike Lynch.
Carolla published a short, illustrated e-book entitled Rich Man, Poor Man in January 2012. The book details some similarities in the experiences of the very rich and the very poor which are not shared by the middle class.
The book was illustrated by Michael Narren.
Carollas book Not Taco Bell Material was published by Crown Archetype on June 12, 2012.
It climbed the New York Times bestseller list and received widespread praise for its satirical humor and honest, self-deprecating style.

In President Me: The America Thats in My Head, Carolla presents the comedians fantasy of the United States with him at the helm.
When asked in separate interviews, both before and after the books release, about whether the "if-I-were-king" critique of America was a serious piece, he said its both: "Well, theres a lot of jokes in it, but you know, its like... Well, if you have a fat friend you may make a lot of fat jokes about your fat friend, but hes still fat".
Carollas latest book is Daddy, Stop Talking!: And Other Things My Kids Want but wont be Getting, in which Carolla writes about modern parenting. Carolla describes what he believes adults must do if they dont want to have to support their kids forever. Carolla uses his own childhood as a cautionary tale, and decries helicopter parenting.{{citation needed date=August 2017}}

==Controversies==
Carolla has occasionally made generalizations about various groups, leading to criticism. For example, in a late-2003 Loveline episode, Carolla said that Hawaiians are "dumb," "in-bred," "retarded, " people who are among the "dumbest people we have." The comments were met with anger in Hawaii and resulted in Loveline{{}}s cancellation on Hawaiian affiliate KPOI.
On the April 4, 2010, episode of The Adam Carolla Show (podcast) The Adam Carolla Show, Carolla referred to Filipino boxer Manny Pacquiao as a "fucking idiot" and said of the Philippines: "They got this and sex tours, thats all they have over there. Get your shit together, Philippines." A spokesman for President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo called Carolla an "ignorant fool." Carolla subsequently apologized via Twitter.
In 2010, Carolla posed for the NOH8 Campaign.
In August 2011, Carolla released a podcast where he mocked a petition to the producers of Sesame Street that demanded Bert and Ernie get married on air. He said on air that gay activists should "[j]ust get married, and please shut up" and that "Y.U.C.K." would be more memorable acronym than LGBT, and referring to transgender people he asked: "When did we start giving a shit about these people?"
The Gay &amp; Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation characterized the previous remarks by Carolla as offensive, including an assertion that "all things being equal," heterosexual parents make better parents than homosexual parents. Carolla responded: "Im sorry my comments were hurtful. Im a comedian, not a politician."
GLAAD called the apology "empty."
In June 2012, Carolla became the target of charges of sexism due to his remarks during an interview published in the New York Post:
{{quotation  The lesson you learned from a sexual harassment seminar was "Dont hire chicks." Do you hate working with women?

No. But they make you hire a certain number of chicks, and theyre always the least funny on the writing staff. The reason why you know more funny dudes than funny chicks is that dudes are funnier than chicks. If my daughter has a mediocre sense of humor, Im just gonna tell her, "Be a staff writer for a sitcom. Because theyll have to hire you, they cant really fire you, and you dont have to produce that much. Itll be awesome."

The "are women funny" debate has grown very contentious. Youre not worried about reactions to this?

I dont care. When youre picking a basketball team, youll take the brother over the guy with the yarmulke. Why? Because youre playing the odds. When it comes to comedy, of course theres Sarah Silverman, Tina Fey, Kathy Griffin – super-funny chicks. But if youre playing the odds? No. If Joy Behar or Sherri Shepherd was a dude, theyd be off TV. Theyre not funny enough for dudes. What if Roseanne Barr was a dude? Think wed know who she was? Honestly.}}

Carollas comments were widely reported and criticized as sexist.
Carolla criticized coverage of his comments as over-simplistic and misleading.
==Personal life==
On September 28, 2002, Carolla married Lynette Paradise. Lynette gave birth to their first children, twins Natalia and Santino "Sonny" Richard Carolla on June 7, 2006.
On The Adam Carolla Show (terrestrial radio) The Adam Carolla Show, Adam repeatedly mentioned the birth was originally scheduled for June 6, but that he and Lynette decided to push it back one day as to avoid the symbolic Number of the Beast 666 (06–06–06).

Carolla was a part owner of Amalfi, an Italian restaurant in Los Angeles. The restaurant is now closed.
Carolla won the 2013 Toyota Pro/Celebrity Race Pro/Celebrity Race as a professional and the 2012 Toyota Pro/Celebrity Race Pro/Celebrity Race at the Toyota Grand Prix of Long Beach as an amateur.
The race was run on April 14, 2012 and was broadcast on Speed TV.
In 2013, Carolla again competed in the Toyota Grand Prix race, this time he raced as a pro-driver. Carolla finished first in the Pro category in the 2013 race
Carolla has previously participated in the race in 2010 and 2003.
He finished ninth among 19 racers (fifth among the ten celebrities) in 2010
