Alastair James Hay Murray (born 10 May 1968), is an England English comedian and TV personality.

He was listed in The Observer as one of the 50 funniest acts in British comedy.
In 2007, he was voted the 16th greatest stand-up comic on Channel 4s 100 Greatest Stand-Ups.

==Early life and family background==
Murray was born at 44 High Street South, Stewkley, Buckinghamshire, only son of Lieutenant Colonel Lieut-Col. Ingram Bernard Hay Murray (a great-great-great-great-grandson of John Murray, 3rd Duke of Atholl John, 3rd Duke of Atholl, who married Charlotte Murray, Duchess of Atholl Charlotte, Baroness Strange), by his wife Juliet Anne Thackeray, née Ritchie (a great-great-granddaughter of the celebrated novelist William Makepeace Thackeray).
His grandfather, the Ambassador former British ambassador Ralph Murray Sir Ralph Murray,
was from Scottish people Scottish aristocracy and married into the Kuenberg family, Imperial Counts,
of the Holy Roman Empire. His patrilineal great-great-grandfather, George Murray (bishop of Rochester) Dr George Murray, was Bishop of Rochester,
while Edward Leigh Sir Edward Leigh MP is his third cousin.
Al Murray is in Remainder (law) remainder both to Peerage of England English and Peerage of Scotland Scottish hereditary peerage peerage titles, including the Baron Strange barony of Strange and the Duke of Atholl dukedom of Atholl.
Murray was educated at Bedford School, where he was head boy,
and St Edmund Hall, Oxford, where he read History Modern History.
At University of Oxford Oxford he performed in the comedy group the The Oxford Revue Oxford Revue, in a show directed by Stewart Lee, later an Honorary Fellow of St Edmund Hall.
==Personal life and campaigning==
File:Twitter Joke Trial 1.jpg thumb Murray (left) with Twitter Joke Trial Paul Chambers (centre) and Stephen Fry (right) outside the Royal Courts of Justice in London on 27 June 2012

Murray married Amber Hargreaves in 2002. The couple, who have two daughters, Scarlett and Willow, separated in 2008.
Murray is a keen cricket fan,
and was invited to attend a farewell lunch for the England cricket team before their departure for the 2013–14 Ashes series.
Murray, together with Stephen Fry, supported Twitter Joke Trial Paul Chambers High Court appeals after Chambers had been arrested for contravening the Communications Act 2003 when a joke Twitter tweet was regarded by police as "menacing" and a terrorist threat. An appeal against Chambers conviction was successful.
In August 2014, Murray was one of 200 public figures who were signatories to a letter to The Guardian expressing their hope that Scotland would vote to remain part of the United Kingdom in Septembers Scottish independence referendum, 2014 referendum on that issue.
Murray was awarded an honorary degree (Hon MA) by the University of Bedfordshire in 2014,
and an honorary Doctor of Social Science (PhD) by the University of Wolverhampton in 2017.
==Career in entertainment==
Murray started out touring with fellow comedians including Harry Hill and Frank Skinner. He won the Perrier Award at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe in 1999, after being nominated in 1996, 1997 and 1998.
He started out with an act that involved sound-effect impressions, including guns, animals and a car boot. With this act he supported Jim Tavaré in Leeds in Winter 1992.

In 1994–95, he was the drummer in the band Evangelista,
the house band at Stewart Lees and Simon Munnerys experimental Cluub Zarathustra in London.
Film maker Martin Pickles made a short film about the band in 2002. At this time the lead singer Reid described Murray as "hes still not a household name, but anyone whos into comedy knows who Al Murray is".
===The Pub Landlord===
Murrays character is an English publican with Conservatism in the United Kingdom conservative values and an animosity towards Germans and the French people French; he will challenge the audience to name any List of sovereign states country in the world before producing some plausible instance of United Kingdom Britain bettering it. The character has a great love for the British 1970s rock band Queen (band) Queen, often getting musician(s) on his show to perform one of Queens tunes in their own style.

The character first appeared in 1994 during the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, in the show "Pub Internationale", with Harry Hill
and Matthew Bradstock-Smith (who played "Little Alan" as well as the keyboards in Hills Edinburgh, radio and TV shows). The show featured the "Pub Band", with Murray playing drums and compering. After trying out a character deemed not to have worked, at the opening show Murray suggested saying that the compere had not made it to the show and that the barman in the venue, the Pleasance Cabaret Bar, had offered to fill in. At the Edinburgh Festival,
Murray came up with "The Pub Landlord".
Murray made his first television appearances on Harry Hill (TV series) Harry Hill in 1997 playing Harrys big brother Alan ("If its too hard, I cant understand it!"), and subsequently featured in a short film, Pub Fiction. He made a brief appearance as the Pub Landlord in Series 2, Episode 6 of Lee and Herrings This Morning with Richard Not Judy. Murrays Pub Landlord theatre show, My Gaff, My Rules was short-listed for an Laurence Olivier Award Olivier Award in 2002.
The Pub Landlord is central focus of the television series Time Gentlemen Please, as well as a number of other television appearances, including the An Audience with... strand. Subsequent theatre tours were: ...And A Glass of White Wine for the Lady (another catchphrase) and Giving it Both Barrels.

The Pub Landlord has hosted several television programmes including Fact Hunt, named after the fictional quiz machine of the same name from Time Gentlemen Please,
the BBC One show Live at the Apollo (TV series) Live at the Apollo and UKTV channel Dave (TV channel) Daves Al Murrays Compete for the Meat Compete for the Meat, which is co-hosted by Zöe Salmon, with voice-overs from Jim Rosenthal. His chat show Al Murrays Happy Hour began airing 13 January 2007 on ITV (TV network) ITV.
The show has won a [http://www.britishcomedyawards.com/past-winners/2007.aspx British Comedy Award] for "Best New Entertainment Comedy".
Murray was the headliner of a July 2009 episode of Michael McIntyres Comedy Roadshow, filmed at the Brighton Dome.
From January 2006, the Pub Landlord filled in for Tim Lovejoy on Virgin Radio on Sunday afternoons, broadcasting his final show on 24 December 2006.
The Pub Landlord has written four books: The Pub Landlords Book Of British Common Sense, The Pub Landlords Think Yourself British, The Pub Landlords Great British Quiz Book, and Lets Re-Great Britain.

===Other work===
As a teenager, Murray was a drummer in the "big band" at Bedford School,
and also played percussion in the Bedfordshire County Youth Orchestra.
He played drums on the music for "The Pub Landlord"  television series and during an appearance on "Happy Hour" by Phil Collins they performed a duet.
He also plays the drums for the rock cover band T-34 and appeared at the Download 2010 Download Festival in 2010, returning once again in 2011.
In 2003, Murray appeared on an episode of the BBCs Time Commanders alongside Kate Silverton, Raji James and Ricky Groves.

In 2004, Murray appeared as a contestant in the first series of Hells Kitchen (UK TV series) Hells Kitchen, Gordon Ramsays cookery based reality show on ITV (TV channel) ITV, and in 2005 appeared as a contestant on Comic Relief Does Fame Academy on BBC One.
Murray presented Al Murrays Road to Berlin on the Discovery Channel. This was a series about the last phase of the Second World War, taking him from the beaches of Normandy, through Arnhem and up the Rhine, ending in Berlin. In the series he drove around in a restored Willys MB Willys Jeep, and interviewed survivors from both sides of the war. In the episode about Operation Market Garden he parachuted, together with veterans, from an aircraft, to commemorate the battle.
Murray starred in Al Murrays Multiple Personality Disorder, a sketch show, which aired in early 2009.
In late 2010, Murray made a documentary on German culture for BBC Four Al Murrays German Adventure in which he presented a different side of the German nation from the one portrayed by "The Pub Landlord" character.
Also in 2010, Murray took part in "Star in a Reasonably Priced Car" on Top Gear (current format) Top Gear with Jeremy Clarkson.
Murray serves as patron of the Cambodian Childrens Charity,
a development and relief charity for children in Cambodia.
Murray became the host of the BBC Radio 5 Live show 7 Day Sunday in March 2011, succeeding Chris Addison, with the show later moving to Saturday (and associated name change).

Murray invented his own potato crisps – branded "Steak and Al Pie" – as entered in a "crisp competition" hosted by Gary Lineker, used to raise money for Comic Relief 2011 Comic Relief.
The other flavours were "Jimmy Con Carne" (Jimmy Carr), "Stephen Fry-Up" (Stephen Fry) and "Frank Roast Dinner" (Frank Skinner). The winner was Stephen Fry-up at 27%, with Als in 2nd with 25%. The other two got 24% each.
Murray sat in for Dermot OLeary Saturday show on BBC Radio 2 on 3 September 2011 and 26 November 2011.

On 13 April and 26 July 2012 Murray guest-hosted the Kermode and Mayos Film Review on BBC Radio 5 Live. On the latter, he exchanged places with critic Mark Kermode to review the comedy Ted (2012 film) Ted.

On 8 December 2012 Murray appeared on the ITV (TV channel) ITV special The McFly Show starring British pop band McFly. He played the bands drummer in character as "The Pub Landlord" while playing the drums with McFly for their cover version of the Queen (band) Queen song "Dont Stop Me Now".
On 1 January 2013 Murray was List of Today Programme Guest Editors guest editor of Today (BBC Radio 4) Today on BBC Radio 4.

Since May 2013 Murray has hosted a show on Bauer Radio Bauers digital radio station Planet Rock (radio station) Planet Rock called Defender of the Planet Rock Tradition.
And he also had a special guest star appearance in the childrens comedy Horrible Histories (2009 TV series) Horrible Histories.

In 2014 he appeared as Jon Westmore in The Life of Rock with Brian Pern. He also wrote and presented the TV documentary Al Murrays Great British Spy Movies on BBC Four. A fan of the rock band Genesis (band) Genesis, Murray contributed to the BBCs documentary about the band Genesis: Together and Apart.
In September 2015 Murray co-founded the British Drum Company.
In August 2016 and March 2017 Murray sat in for Steve Wright (DJ) Steve Wright on his Steve Wright in the Afternoon show on BBC Radio 2. In April 2016, Murray played Nick Bottom in Shakespeare Live, a celebration of 400 years of Shakespeare, opposite Judi Dench as Titania.
Murray participated in series three of the comedy challenge show Taskmaster (TV series) Taskmaster, which aired on Dave (TV channel) Dave in 2017.
==Parliamentary candidacy==
On 14 January 2015, Murray announced the formation of the Free United Kingdom Party (FUKP)
and declared his candidacy, deploying his Pub Landlord persona, for the Electoral district seat of South Thanet (UK Parliament constituency) South Thanet
running against UKIP leader Nigel Farage, as Prospective parliamentary candidate parliamentary candidate in the United Kingdom general election, 2015 2015 general election.
Murray’s agent, Dan Lloyd, told the BBC: "its definitely happening".
The List of frivolous political parties partys logo is an upside-down pound sign,
not dissimilar to UKIP’s purple and gold pound sign.
Murray said: “it seems to me that the UK is ready for a bloke waving a pint around, offering common sense solutions", adding: “let it be known that like many of the parliamentary hopefuls in the forthcoming election, I have no idea where South Thanet is – but did that stop Margaret Thatcher from saving the Falkland Islands? No!”
Farage appeared to welcome his new opponent on Twitter, saying "the more, the merrier", and a spokesperson for the UKIP Member of The European Parliament MEP said: “at last, serious competition in the constituency”.
The Conservative Party (UK) Conservative candidate, Craig Mackinlay, said he enjoyed Murrays video and his proclamations but was not worried that the comedian would split the anti-UKIP vote.
Finally, the Labour Party (UK) Labour candidate, Will Scobie, insisted it was "always good to have people putting their names forward to stand" and that Murray would "certainly make things interesting".
When nominations for South Thanet were released on 9 April 2015, it was confirmed that Murray would appear on the ballot paper with no description, rather than his FUKP name and emblem.
The results of the election were announced on 8 May, revealing that Murray garnered 318 votes. This number of votes was higher than the average votes received by candidates from, amongst others, the Communist, Socialist and BNP parties.
{{Failed verification date=February 2016}} When it was announced that Farage had failed to get elected, coming second in the poll to the Conservative candidate Craig Mackinlay, Murrays reaction – feigning shock and clapping on stage – garnered widespread media attention.
Speaking to the media during the vote count, Murray invited Farage to a drink in his pub to drown his sorrow at losing.
==Stand-up DVDs==
{  class="wikitable"
 -
! Title !! Released !! Notes
 -
  Live - My Gaff, My Rules    24 November 2003    Live at Londons Playhouse Theatre
 -
  ...And A Glass of White Wine for the Lady!: Recorded Live at the Playhouse London    22 November 2004    Live at Londons Playhouse Theatre
 -
  Giving It Both Barrels: Live    29 May 2006    Live at Londons Bloomsbury Theatre
 -
  Live at the London Palladium    19 November 2007    Live at Londons London Palladium Palladium Theatre
 -
  Beautiful British Tour: Live at the O2    16 November 2009    Live at Londons The O2 Arena O2 Arena
 -
  Barrel of Fun: Live    22 November 2010    Live at Londons Hammersmith Apollo
 -
  The Only Way Is Epic    26 November 2012    Live at Brightons Theatre Royal, Brighton Theatre Royal
 -
  One Man, One Guvnor    24 November 2014    Live at Bath, Somerset Baths Theatre Royal, Bath Theatre Royal
 }

==Books==
{  class="wikitable"
 -
!Title
!Published
 -
  The Pub Landlords Book of British Common Sense
  11 October 2007
 -
  The Pub Landlords Think Yourself British
  5 October 2009
 -
  The Pub Landlords Great British Pub Quiz Book
  28 October 2010
 -
  Watching War Films with My Dad
  24 October 2013
 -
  Lets Re-Great Britain
  1 April 2015
}
