Allan Sherman (born Allan Copelon
; November 30, 1924 – November 20, 1973) was an American comedy writer, television producer, singer and actor who became famous as a song parody parodist in the early 1960s. His first album, My Son, the Folk Singer (1962), became the fastest-selling record album up to that time.
His biggest hit single was "Hello Muddah, Hello Fadduh (A Letter from Camp) Hello Muddah, Hello Fadduh", a comic novelty in which a boy describes his summer camp experiences to the tune of Amilcare Ponchielli Ponchiellis Dance of the Hours.  He is not to be confused with the songwriter Al Sherman, who, coincidentally, also died in the fall of 1973.

==Early life==
Sherman was born in Chicago, to Percy Copelon and Rose Sherman. Percy was an auto mechanic and race car driver who, like his son, suffered from obesity (he weighed over 350 pounds), and died while attempting a 100-day diet. His family was Jewish. Shermans parents divorced when he was in grade school, and the son adopted his mothers maiden name. Due to his parents constantly moving to new residences, he attended over a dozen public schools in Chicago, New York, Los Angeles, and Miami. He attended the University of Illinois, where he earned mostly "C" grades and contributed a humor column to The Daily Illini, the college newspaper, but never received a degree because he was expelled for breaking into a campus sorority house with his then-girlfriend.{{vague date=July 2016 reason=Was it her sor. hse (e.g. to  conceal her being out  beyond a curfew? Was it a different sorority house, and if so w/ what motive? Also bcz inquiring minds want to know what penalty she incurred, and whether in his case "it wasnt the crime but the" attitude once caught}}{{citation needed date=July 2016 reason=now do you get it, about the value of requiring refs???}}

==Television writer and producer==
Sherman devised a game show he intended to call I Know a Secret. Television producer Mark Goodson used Shermans idea and turned it into Ive Got a Secret, which ran on CBS from 1952 to 1967. Rather than paying him for the concept, Mark Goodson-Bill Todman Productions made Sherman the shows producer. Sherman was reported to be warm and kindhearted to all who worked for him. However, differences occurred between Sherman and anyone who was in a position to try to restrain his creativity.
As producer of Ive Got a Secret, which was broadcast live, he showed a fondness for large-scale stunts that had the potential to teeter on the brink of disaster. He once released 100 rabbits onstage as an Easter surprise for the Madison Square Boys &amp; Girls Clubs of America Boys Club, whose members were seated in the studio. The boys were invited to come up onstage to collect their prize. Although the resultant melee made a good story, it did not necessarily make for good TV.

The relationship between Goodson, Todman and Sherman became strained when he proposed that Tony Curtis teach the panel how to play some games he had played as a child growing up in New York City. However, Curtis had never actually played any of the games that Sherman had brought the props for. The props for Shermans concept failed and the spot, which aired June 11, 1958, was a disaster and Sherman was removed as producer. Despite this, Goodson and Todman invited Sherman back several times as a guest on their shows in later years after he achieved celebrity status following the release of his albums.

Sherman also produced a short-lived 1954 game show, Whats Going On (TV series) Whats Going On?, which was technologically ambitious, with studio guests interacting with multiple live cameras in remote locations. In 1961, he produced a daytime game show for Al Singer Productions called Your Surprise Package, which aired on CBS with host George Fenneman.

==Song parodies==
In 1951, Sherman recorded a 78-rpm single with veteran singer Sylvia Froos which contained "A Satchel and a Seck", parodying "A Bushel and a Peck" from Guys and Dolls (musical) Guys and Dolls, coupled with "Jakes Song", parodying "Sams Song (song) Sams Song", a contemporary hit for Bing Crosby and his son Gary Crosby (actor) Gary. The single sold poorly and when Sherman wrote his autobiography, he did not make reference to it. Later, he found that the song parodies he performed to amuse his friends and family were taking on a life of their own. Sherman lived in the Brentwood, Los Angeles, California Brentwood section of Westside (Los Angeles County) West Los Angeles next door to Harpo Marx, who invited him to perform his song parodies at parties attended by Marxs show-biz friends. After one party, George Burns phoned an executive at Warner Bros. Records and persuaded him to sign Sherman to a contract. The result was an Gramophone record LP of these parodies, My Son, the Folk Singer, which was released in 1962. It sold over one million copies, and was awarded a music recording sales certification gold disc.
The album was so successful that it was quickly followed by My Son, the Celebrity, which ended with "Shticks of One and Half a Dozen of the Other", fragments of song parodies including Robert Burns "Comin Thro the Rye": "Do not make a stingy sandwich, pile the cold cuts high;/Customers should see salami comin thru the rye" and "All day, all night, Cary Grant," a takeoff on "Marianne (Terry Gilkyson song) Marianne".

In 1962, capitalizing on his success, Jubilee Records re-released Shermans 1951 single on the album More Folk Songs by Allan Sherman and His Friends, which was a compilation of material by various Borscht Belt comedians, such as Sylvia Froos, Fyvush Finkel and Lee Tully, along with the Sherman material.

As suggested by the albums titles, Shermans first two LPs were mainly reworkings of old folk songs to infuse them with Jewish humor. His first minor hit was "Sarah Jackman" (pronounced "Jockman"), a takeoff of "Frère Jacques" in which he and a woman (Christine Nelson) exchange family gossip ("Sarah Jackman, Sarah Jackman,/Hows by you? Hows by you?/Hows by you the family?/Hows your sister Emily?" etc.). The popularity of "Sarah Jackman" (as well as the album My Son, the Folk Singer) was enhanced after President John F. Kennedy was spotted in a hotel lobby singing the song. By his peak with My Son, the Nut in 1963, however, Sherman had broadened both his subject matter and his choice of parody material and begun to appeal to a larger audience.

Sherman wrote his parody lyrics in collaboration with Lou Busch. A few of the Sherman/Busch songs are completely original creations, featuring original music as well as lyrics, rather than new lyrics applied to an existing melody. The Sherman/Busch originals – notably "Go to Sleep, Paul Revere" and "Peyton Place" – are novelty songs, showing genuine melodic originality as well as deft lyrics.

However, Sherman had trouble in getting permission to record for profit from some well-known composers and lyricists, who did not tolerate parodies or satires of their melodies and lyrics, including Irving Berlin, Richard Rodgers, George Gershwin George and Ira Gershwin, Meredith Willson, Alan Jay Lerner, and Frederick Loewe, as well as the estates of Lorenz Hart, Oscar Hammerstein II Oscar Hammerstein, Kurt Weill, and Bertolt Brecht, which prevented him from releasing parodies or satires of their songs. In the late 1950s, Sherman was inspired by a recording of a nightclub musical show called My Fairfax Lady, a parody of My Fair Lady set in the Jewish section of Los Angeles that was performed at Billy Gray (comedian) Billy Grays Band Box. Sherman then wrote his own song parodies of My Fair Lady, which appeared as a bootleg recording in 1964, and were only officially released in 2005 on My Son, the Box. Alan Jay Lerner did not approve of having the parody being performed; however, he reluctantly settled to allow the performances of "Fairfax Lady", on the strict conditions that the show could only be allowed to be performed inside the Fairfax Theater, without any touring company, and that the musical could not be videotaped or recorded for any album.

Although Sherman believed that all the songs parodied on My Son, the Folk Singer were in the public domain, two of them, "Matilda" and "Water Boy" – parodied as "My Zelda" and "Seltzer water Seltzer Boy", respectively – were actually under copyright, and Sherman was sued for copyright infringement.
In 1963s My Son, the Nut, Shermans pointed parodies of classical and popular tunes dealt with automation in the workplace ("Automation", to the tune of "Fascination (1932 song) Fascination"), Spaceflight space travel ("Eight Foot Two, Solid Blue", to "Five Foot Two, Eyes of Blue"), the exodus from the city to the suburbs ("Heres to the Crabgrass", to the tune of "English Country Garden"), and his own bulky contours ("Hail to Thee, Fat Person", which claims his obesity was a public service similar to the Marshall Plan). Six cartoon bears were printed on back of every album.

==A Top 40 hit==
One track from My Son, the Nut, a spoof of summer camp entitled "Hello Muddah, Hello Fadduh (A Letter from Camp) Hello Muddah, Hello Fadduh", became a surprise novelty hit, reaching No. 2 on the national Billboard Hot 100 Billboard Hot 100 chart for three weeks in late summer 1963. The lyrics were sung to the tune of one segment of Amilcare Ponchielli Ponchiellis Dance of the Hours, familiar to the public because of its use in the Walt Disney film Fantasia (1940 film) Fantasia. That December, Shermans "The Twelve Gifts of Christmas" single appeared on Billboard{{}}s separate Christmas chart. Sherman had one other Top 40 hit, a 1965 take-off on the Petula Clark hit "Downtown (Petula Clark song) Downtown" called "Crazy Downtown", which spent one week at #40. Two other Sherman singles charted in the lower regions of the Billboard 100: an updated "Hello Mudduh, Hello Fadduh" (#59 in 1964), and "The Drinking Mans Diet" (#98 in 1965). Shermans "The End of a Symphony", spotlighting Arthur Fiedlers Boston Pops Orchestra, reached #113 on the "Bubbling Under" chart in 1964, but did not make the Hot 100.

The songs on Shermans next album My Name Is Allan (1965) were thematically connected: except for a couple of original novelty songs with music by Sherman and Busch, all the songs on the album are parodies of songs that had won, or were nominated for, the Academy Award for Best Song. They included "That Old Black Magic", "Secret Love (Doris Day song) Secret Love", "The Continental (song) The Continental", "Chim Chim Cher-ee" and "Call Me Irresponsible".  The cover of the album bore a childhood photograph of Sherman. That, and the albums title, were references to Barbra Streisands album My Name Is Barbra, released earlier that year, which featured a cover photograph of the singer as a young girl.

During his brief heyday, Shermans parodies were so popular that he had at least one contemporary imitator: My Son the Copycat was an album of song parodies performed by Stanley Ralph Ross, co-written by Ross and Bob Arbogast. Lest there be any doubt of whom Ross is copying, his albums cover bears a crossed-out photo of Sherman. One of the songs on this album is a fat mans lament, "Im Called Little Butterball", parodying "Im Called Little Buttercup" from Gilbert and Sullivans operetta HMS Pinafore. Sherman would later parody this same song as "Little Butterball" – with the same subject matter – on his album Allan in Wonderland. The song may have had more poignancy for Sherman, as he, unlike Stanley Ross, was genuinely overweight. Sherman also parodied Gilbert and Sullivans "Titwillow" from The Mikado, in the song "The Bronx Bird-Watcher" (on My Son, the Celebrity), as well as Cultural influence of Gilbert and Sullivan several other Gilbert and Sullivan songs.

==Later work==
In 1965, Sherman published an autobiography, A Gift of Laughter, and, for a short period at least, he was culturally ubiquitous. He sang on and guest-hosted The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson The Tonight Show, was involved in the production of Bill Cosbys first three albums, appeared in the Macys Thanksgiving Day Parade, and sang "The Dropouts March" on the March 6, 1964, edition of the NBC satirical program That Was The Week That Was.

Also in 1964, Sherman narrated his own version of Sergei Prokofiev Prokofievs Peter and the Wolf in a live concert at Tanglewood with the Boston Pops under Arthur Fiedler. The concert, which was released as the album Peter and the Commissar, also included "Variations on How Dry I Am", with Sherman as Conductor (music) conductor, and "The End of a Symphony". In "Variations", Fiedler was the guest soloist, providing solo hiccups. In 2004, Collectors Choice Music Collectors Choice reissued the complete RCA Victor album on CD.
Shermans later albums grew more pointedly satirical and less light-hearted, skewering protesting students ("The Rebel"), consumer debt ("A Waste of Money", based on "A Taste of Honey (song) A Taste of Honey"), and the generation gap ("Crazy Downtown" and "Pop Hates the Beatles").

Sherman was often tapped to produce specialty song parodies for corporations. An album of six paper-cup and vending machine related songs, titled Music to Dispense With, was created for the Container Division of the Scott Paper Company for distribution to its vendors and customers. It consisted of the tracks "Makin Coffee" (a parody of "Makin Whoopee"), "Vending Machines", "There Are Cups", "Thats How the Change Is Made", "The Wonderful Tree in the Forest" and "Scott Cups".
Sherman also created a group of eight "public education" radio spots for Encron carpet fibers, singing their praises to the tunes of old public-domain songs. Entitled Allan Sherman Pours It On for Carpets Made with Encron Polyester, it featured an introduction by Sherman and comprised the tracks "Encron Is a Brand New Fiber" (to the tune of "Shine On, Harvest Moon"), "Put Them All Together, They Spell Encron" (to the tune of Eddy Arnolds "M-O-T-H-E-R"), "Theres a Fiber Called Encron" (to the tune of William H. Hills "There is a Tavern in the Town"), "Encron Alive, Alive-O" (to the tune of "Molly Malone"), "Encrons the Name", "Why They Call It Encron" (to the tune of "Let Me Call You Sweetheart"), "Encron, Encron" (to the tune of "Daisy Bell") and "Encron Is a Great New Fiber" (to the tune of "Take Me to the Fair").
==Decline==
{{refimprove section date=October 2017}}
Shermans career success was short-lived: after peaking in 1963, his popularity declined rather quickly. After the assassination of John F. Kennedy, impersonator Vaughn Meader vowed to never again do a Kennedy impression, and perhaps because of this ominous shadow – Meader was a very popular parody impressionist of the day – and the resulting reluctance to book such acts, the public saw less of Shermans type of comedy.
Beginning in 1964, Sherman was among many American acts whose sales were affected badly  by the British Invasion (which, in fair measure, Sherman skewered in the song "Pop Hates the Beatles", a spoof of "Pop! Goes the Weasel").

By 1965, he had released two albums that did not make the Top 50 and in 1966 Warner Bros. dropped him from the label. His last album for the company, Togetherness, was released in 1967 to poor reviews and poorer sales. All of his previous releases had been recorded in front of a live studio audience – or in the case of Live, Hoping You Are the Same, recorded during a Las Vegas performance – but Togetherness was not, and the lack of an audience and their response affected the result, as did the nondescript backup singers and studio orchestra.

On November 13, 1965 Sherman made a rare prime time television acting appearance in "The Sheriff of Fettermans Crossing," an episode of Rod Serling Rod Serlings short-lived Western series The Loner (1965–66). Sherman played Walton Peterson Tetley, a local schnook who went off to war and rose to regiment cook before returning home a hero thanks to tall tales and yarn-spinning. The town hails its conquering hero and Tetley is appointed sheriff. Series star Lloyd Bridges as William Colton, a wandering Union veteran, comes to town and signs on to be Tetleys deputy, discovering quickly his boss utter incompetence in the office. Tetley receives a threatening note from a gunslinger challenging this purported hero to a gunfight when he arrives on the noon stage, at which point the story becomes a parody of iconic Western movie High Noon (1952). Colton sets to teaching the shivering-in-his-boots sheriff courage and gunmanship. Shermans semi-serious and sympathetic performance was strong and his presence an affable one.

In 1966, Sherman visited Australia. He did a television series in Melbourne, Victoria, for a live audience. During the performance, he sang a parody of "Molly Malone." It included a play on the word "but" (butt) which did not elicit a laugh. What Sherman did not know is that Australians use the word "bum" where Americans would say "butt" (although butt would become popular in later years.)  Otherwise, Sherman was well received by the audience. Afterward, he met with some of his fans and signed at least one autograph.

In 1969, Sherman wrote the book and lyrics – with music by Albert Hague – for The Fig Leaves Are Falling, a flop Broadway theater Broadway musical that ran only four performances, despite direction by George Abbott and a cast that included Barry Nelson, Dorothy Loudon, and David Cassidy.
Still creative, in 1973, Sherman published the controversial The Rape of the A*P*E*, which detailed his point of view on American Religious fanaticism Puritanism and the sexual revolution.

In 1971, Sherman was the voice of Dr. Seusss The Cat in the Hat  for the The Cat in the Hat (TV special) television special. He reprised the role for Dr. Seuss on the Loose, his last project before his death.

==Death==
In his last years, Shermans alcoholism and weight gain caused severe deterioration of his health; he later developed diabetes and struggled with lung disease.
In 1966, his wife Dee filed for divorce
and received full custody of their son and daughter.{{Citation needed date=March 2012}}

Sherman lived on unemployment benefits for a time and moved into the Motion Picture &amp; Television Country House and Hospital for a short time to lose weight.
