Andrew Maxwell (born 3 December 1974) is an Irish people Irish stand-up comedian raised in Kilbarrack, Dublin, and now resident in London.
Maxwell is best known for being the narrator of the MTV (UK and Ireland) MTV reality television series, Ex on the Beach.
==Early life==

In 1992, at age 18, Maxwell tried stand-up comedy for the first time at a local club run by Ardal OHanlon. The club was International Comedy Cellar The Comedy Cellar at The International Bar in central Dublin. Two years later he began to play on the international stand up circuit, mainly over in Great Britain Britain. Warm-up slots on British television shows Jonathan Ross, Johnny Vaughan, and They Think Its All Over (TV series) They Think Its All Over soon followed. From 1995, he made regular appearances on BBC Twos Sunday Show, which was transmitted live from Manchester.

==Career==
Recent credits for Maxwell include RI:SE as the United States correspondent interviewing the likes of Sandra Bullock, Val Kilmer and Jodie Foster; and a regular guest slot on a weekly topical comedy-style chat show The Panel (Irish TV series) The Panel, that ran in Ireland on RTÉ One from 2003 until 2011.

He appeared on the The Secret Policemans Ball 2006 Secret Policemans Ball in 2006 (shown on Channel 4 in the UK). He has also appeared on the TV shows Never Mind the Buzzcocks and Mock The Week. He was voted the "King of Comedy" on the Channel 4 reality TV show of the same name. A Funny Cuts special for E4 (channel) E4, called Andrew Maxwell – My Name Up In Lights and catching Maxwell in performance, aired on 28 July 2006.

In 2007 he was nominated for the if.comedy award for the best show at the Edinburgh Fringe.

Maxwell also hosts his own weekly late-night comedy gig Fullmooners, which mainly takes place in London but also tours around comedy festivals such as Edinburgh Fringe Edinburgh. It has featured comics like Russell Brand, Simon Pegg, Tommy Tiernan and Ed Byrne (comedian) Ed Byrne. It also features break-dancers and singers.

He became a regular panelist on Irish current events/comedy show The Panel (Irish TV series) The Panel on Raidió Teilifís Éireann (RTÉ). He recently appeared on Argumental and Celebrity Juice. He also had his own show, entitled Smoke and Mirrors.

He supports Scotland Scottish football team Hibernian F.C., mainly due to the clubs Irish heritage.
In 2014 Maxwell features in Drunk History (UK TV series) Drunk History shown on Comedy Central, a light hearted show in which comedians get outrageously drunk before attempting to recount historical events.

In 2014 also, Maxwell became the narrator of Ex on the Beach, an MTV (UK and Ireland) MTV reality based television series. Maxwell has narrated every series since the shows launch. Maxwell has also appeared on the BBC Radio 4 series "The News Quiz". 

===DVD releases===
{ class="wikitable"
 -
!Title
!Released
!Notes
 -
 Live in Dublin
 25 July 2012
 Live in Dublin
 -
  Conflict Revolution
 5 December 2008
 Live in Edinburgh
 -
  One Inch Punch
 22 November 2010
 Live at Vicar Street
 }
