Andrew Geoffrey Kaufman (January 17, 1949 – May 16, 1984)
was an American entertainer, actor, writer, performance artist, and comedian. While often called a comedian, Kaufman described himself instead as a "song and dance man".
He disdained telling jokes and engaging in comedy as it was traditionally understood, once saying in a rare introspective interview, "I am not a comic, I have never told a joke. ... The comedians promise is that he will go out there and make you laugh with him... My only promise is that I will try to entertain you as best I can."
After working in small comedy clubs in the early 1970s, Kaufman came to the attention of a wider audience in 1975, when he was invited to perform portions of his act on the first season of Saturday Night Live. His Foreign Man character was the basis of his performance as Latka Gravas on the hit television show Taxi (TV series) Taxi from 1978 until 1983.
During this time, he continued to tour comedy clubs and theaters in a series of unique performance art / comedy shows, sometimes appearing as himself and sometimes as obnoxiously rude lounge singer Tony Clifton. He was also a frequent guest on sketch comedy and late-night talk shows, particularly Late Night with David Letterman.
In 1982, Kaufman brought his professional wrestling Heel (professional wrestling) villain act to Lettermans show by way of a staged encounter with Jerry Lawler Jerry "The King" Lawler of the Continental Wrestling Association (although the fact that the altercation was planned in advance was not publicly disclosed for over a decade).

Kaufman died of lung cancer in 1984, at the age of 35.
Because pranks and elaborate ruses were major elements of his career, persistent rumors have circulated that Kaufman Faked death faked his own death as a grand hoax.
He continues to be respected for the variety of his characters, his uniquely counterintuitive approach to comedy, and his willingness to provoke negative and confused reactions from audiences.
==Early life==
Kaufman was born on January 17, 1949, in New York City, the oldest of three children. His mother was Janice (née Bernstein), a homemaker and former fashion model, and his father was Stanley Kaufman, a jewelry salesman.
Andy, along with his younger brother Michael and sister Carol, grew up in a middle-class Jews Jewish family in Great Neck, New York Great Neck, Long Island.
He began performing at childrens birthday parties at age 9, playing records and showing cartoons.
Kaufman spent much of his youth writing poetry and stories, including an unpublished novel, The Hollering Mangoo, which he completed at age 16.
Following a visit to his school from Nigerian musician Babatunde Olatunji, Kaufman began playing the congas.
After graduating from John L. Miller Great Neck North High School Great Neck North High School in 1967, Kaufman took a year off before enrolling at the now defunct two-year Grahm Junior College,
in Boston,
where he studied television production and starred in his own campus television show, Uncle Andys Fun House.
He began performing at coffee houses and developing his act, as well as writing a one-man play, Gosh (later renamed God and published in 2000).
After graduating in 1971, he began performing stand-up comedy at various small clubs on the East coast of the United States East Coast.
==Career==
===Foreign Man and Mighty Mouse===
Kaufman first received major attention for his character Foreign Man, who spoke in a meek, high-pitched, heavy-accented voice and claimed to be from "Caspiar", a fictional island in the Caspian Sea.
It was as this character that Kaufman convinced the owner of the famed New York City comedy club The Improv, Budd Friedman, to allow him to perform on stage.
As Foreign Man, Kaufman would appear on the stage of comedy clubs, play a recording of the theme from the Mighty Mouse cartoon show while standing perfectly still, and lip sync lip-sync only the line "Here I come to save the day" with great enthusiasm.
He would proceed to tell a few (purposely poor) jokes and conclude his act with a series of celebrity impersonator impersonations, with the comedy arising from the characters obvious ineptitude at impersonation. For example, in his fake accent Kaufman would say to the audience, "I would like to imitate Jimmy Carter Meester Carter, de president of de United States" and then, in exactly the same voice, say "Hello, I am Meester Carter, de president of de United States. Tank you veddy much."
At some point in the performance, usually when the audience was conditioned to Foreign Mans inability to perform a single convincing impression, Foreign Man would announce, "And now I would like to imitate the Elvis Presley", turn around, take off his jacket, slick his hair back, and launch into a rousing, hip-shaking, excellent rendition of Presley singing one of his hit songs. Like Presley, he would take off his leather jacket during the song and throw it into the audience, but unlike Presley, Foreign Man would immediately ask for it to be returned. After the songs finale, he would take a simple bow and say in his Foreign Man voice, "Tank you veddy much."{{citation needed date=January 2017}}

Portions of Kaufmans Foreign Man act were broadcast in the first season of Saturday Night Live. The Mighty Mouse number was featured in the October 11, 1975, premiere, while the joke-telling and celebrity impressions (including Elvis) were included in the November 8 broadcast that same year.
===Latka===
{{Main Latka Gravas}}
File:Akaufman1.jpg thumb 210px right Kaufmans well-known Foreign Man persona was later adapted as the character Latka Gravas on ABC sitcom Taxi. Though Kaufmans performances on Taxi were widely praised, even receiving two Golden Globe nominations, he was unhappy about being so closely identified with Latka.

Kaufman first used his Foreign Man character in nightclubs in the early 1970s, often to tell jokes incorrectly and do weak imitations of famous people before bursting into his Elvis Presley imitation. The character was then changed into Latka Gravas for American Broadcasting Company ABCs sitcom Taxi (TV series) Taxi, appearing in 79 of 114 episodes in 1978-83.{{citation needed date=January 2017}} Bob Zmuda confirms this: "They basically were buying Andys Foreign Man character for the Taxi character Latka."
Kaufmans longtime manager George Shapiro encouraged him to take the gig.

Kaufman disliked sitcoms and was not happy with the idea of being in one, but Shapiro convinced him that it would quickly lead to stardom, which would earn him money he could then put into his own act. Kaufman agreed to appear in 14 episodes per season, and initially wanted four for Kaufmans alter ego Tony Clifton. After Kaufman deliberately sabotaged Cliftons appearance on the show, however, that part of his contract was dropped.
His character was given multiple personality disorder, which allowed Kaufman to randomly portray other characters. In one episode of Taxi, Kaufmans character came down with a condition that made him act like Alex Reiger, the main character played by Judd Hirsch. Another such recurring character played by Kaufman was the womanizing Vic Ferrari.
Sam Simon, who early in his career was a writer and later showrunner for Taxi, stated in a 2013 interview on Marc Marons WTF with Marc Maron WTF podcast that the story of Kaufman having been generally disruptive on the show was "a complete fiction" largely created by Zmuda. Simon maintained that Zmuda has a vested interest in promoting an out-of-control image of Kaufman. In the interview Simon stated that Kaufman was "completely professional" and that he "told you Tony Clifton was him", but he also conceded that Kaufman would have "loved" Zmudas version of events.
Kaufman was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor – Series, Miniseries or Television Film Best Supporting Actor in a Series, Limited Series, or Motion Picture Made For Television for Taxi in 1979 and 1981.
===Tony Clifton===
{{refimprove section date=January 2017}}
{{Main Tony Clifton}}
Another well-known Kaufman character is Tony Clifton, an absurd, audience-abusing lounge singer who began opening for Kaufman at comedy clubs and eventually even performed concerts on his own around the country. Sometimes it was Kaufman performing as Clifton, sometimes it was his brother Michael or Zmuda. For a brief time, it was unclear to some that Clifton was not a real person. News programs interviewed Clifton as Kaufmans opening act, with the mood turning ugly whenever Kaufmans name came up. Kaufman, Clifton insisted, was attempting to ruin Cliftons "good name" in order to make money and become famous.

As a requirement for Kaufmans accepting the offer to star on Taxi, he insisted that Clifton be hired for a guest role on the show as if he were a real person, not a character.
After throwing a tantrum on the set, Clifton was fired and escorted from the studio lot by security guards. Much to Kaufmans delight, this incident was reported in the local newspapers.
===Carnegie Hall show===
At the beginning of an April 1979 performance at New Yorks Carnegie Hall, Kaufman invited his "grandmother" to watch the show from a chair he had placed at the side of the stage. At the end of the show, she stood up, took her mask off and revealed to the audience that she was actually comedian Robin Williams in disguise.
Kaufman also had an elderly woman (Eleanor Cody Gould) pretend to have a heart attack and die on stage, at which point he reappeared on stage wearing a Native American headdress and performed a dance over her body, "reviving" her.
The performance is most famous for Kaufmans ending the show by actually taking the entire audience, in 24 buses, out for milk and cookies. He invited anyone interested to meet him on the Staten Island Ferry the next morning, where the show continued.
===TV specials===
The Taxi deal with American Broadcasting Company ABC included giving Kaufman a television special/pilot. He came up with Andys Funhouse, based on an old routine he had developed while in junior college. The special was taped in 1977 but did not air until August 1979. It featured most of Andys famous gags, including Foreign Man/Latka and his Elvis Presley impersonation, as well as a host of unique segments (including a special appearance by childrens television character Howdy Doody and the "Has-been Corner").
There was also a segment that included fake television screen static as part of the gag, which ABC executives were not comfortable with, fearing that viewers would mistake the static for broadcast problems and would change the channel—which was the comic element Kaufman wanted to present.
Andys Funhouse was written by Kaufman, Zmuda, and Mel Sherer, with music by Kaufman.
In March 1980, Kaufman filmed a short segment for an ABC show called Buckshot. The segment was just over six minutes long and was called Uncle Andys Funhouse. It featured Kaufman as the host of a childrens show for adults, complete with a peanut gallery and Tony Clifton puppet.
In 1983, a show very similar to Andys Funhouse and Uncle Andys Funhouse was filmed for Public Broadcasting Service PBSs Soundstage (TV series) SoundStage program, called The Andy Kaufman Show. It too featured a peanut gallery, and cold open opened in the middle of an interview Kaufman is doing in which he is laughing hysterically. He then proceeds to thank the audience for watching and the credits roll.{{citation needed date=January 2017}}

===Fridays incidents===
In 1981 Kaufman made three appearances on Fridays (ABC TV series) Fridays, a variety show on ABC that was similar to Saturday Night Live. In his first appearance, during a sketch about four people out on a dinner date who excuse themselves to the restroom to smoke cannabis (drug) marijuana, Kaufman broke character and refused to say his lines.
In response, cast member Michael Richards walked off camera and returned with a set of cue cards and dumped them on the table in front of Kaufman who responded by splashing Richards with water. Co-producer Jack Burns stormed onto the stage, leading to a brawl on camera before the show abruptly cut away to a commercial.
Richards has claimed that this incident was a staged practical joke that was known only to him, associate producer Burns, and Kaufman,
but Melanie Chartoff, who played Kaufmans wife in the sketch, has stated that, just before airtime, Burns told her, Maryedith Burrell, and Richards that Kaufman was going to break the fourth wall.
Kaufman appeared the following week in a videotaped apology to the home viewers. Later that year, Kaufman returned to host Fridays. At one point in the show, he invited a Lawrence Welk Show gospel and standards singer, Kathie Sullivan, on stage to sing a few gospel songs with him and announced that the two were engaged to be married, then talked to the audience about his newfound faith in Jesus (Kaufman was Jewish). That was also a hoax.
Later, following a sketch about a drug-abusing pharmacist, Kaufman was supposed to introduce the band The Pretenders. Instead of introducing the band, he delivered a nervous speech about the harmfulness of drugs while the band stood behind him ready to play. After his speech, he informed the audience that he had talked for too long and had to go to a commercial.{{citation needed date=January 2017}}

===Professional wrestling===
Inspired by the theatricality of kayfabe, the staged nature of the sport, and his own tendency to form elaborate hoaxes, Kaufman began Intergender wrestling wrestling women during his act and proclaimed himself "Inter-Gender Wrestling Champion of the World", taking on an aggressive and ridiculous personality based on the characters invented by professional wrestlers. He offered a $1,000 prize to any woman who could pin him.
He employed performance artist Laurie Anderson, a friend of his, in this act for a while.
Kaufman initially approached the head of the World Wrestling Federation, Vince McMahon Sr., about bringing his act to the New York wrestling territory.
McMahon dismissed Kaufmans idea as the elder McMahon was not about to bring "show business" into his Pro Wrestling society.
Kaufman had by then developed a friendship with wrestling reporter/photographer Bill Apter.
After many discussions about Kaufmans desire to be in the pro wrestling business, Apter called Memphis wrestling icon Jerry Lawler Jerry "The King" Lawler and introduced him to Kaufman by telephone.
Kaufman finally stepped into the ring (in the Continental Wrestling Association Memphis wrestling circuit) with a man—Lawler himself.
Kaufman taunted the residents of Memphis by playing "videos showing residents how to use soap" and proclaiming the city to be "the nations redneck capital".
The ongoing Lawler-Kaufman feud (professional wrestling) feud, which often featured Jimmy Hart and other heel (professional wrestling) heels in Kaufmans corner, included a number of staged "List of professional wrestling terms#W works", such as a broken neck for Kaufman as a result of Lawlers piledriver (professional wrestling) piledriver and a famous on-air fight on a 1982 episode of Late Night with David Letterman.
For some time after that first match, Kaufman appeared wearing a neck brace,
insisting that his injuries were much worse than they really were. Kaufman would continue to defend the Inter-Gender Championship in the Mid-South Coliseum and offered an extra prize, other than the $1,000: that if he were pinned, the woman who pinned him would get to marry him and that Kaufman would also shave his head.
Eventually it was revealed that the feud and wrestling matches were staged works,
and that Kaufman and Lawler were friends. This was not disclosed until more than 10 years after Kaufmans death, when the Emmy-nominated documentary A Comedy Salute to Andy Kaufman aired on NBC in 1995. Jim Carrey, who revealed the secret, later went on to play Kaufman in the 1999 in film 1999 film Man on the Moon (film) Man on the Moon. In a 1997 interview with the Memphis Flyer, Lawler said he had improvised during their first match and the Letterman incident.

Although officials at St. Francis Hospital stated that Kaufmans neck injuries were real, in his 2002 biography Its Good to Be the King ... Sometimes, Lawler detailed how they came up with the List of professional wrestling terms#A angle and kept it quiet. Even though Kaufmans injury was legitimate, the pair exaggerated it. He also said that Kaufmans furious tirade and performance on Letterman was Kaufmans own idea, including when Lawler slapped Kaufman out of his chair. Promoter Jerry Jarrett later recalled that for two years, he would mail Kaufman payments comparable to what other main-event wrestlers were getting at the time, but Kaufman never deposited the checks.
Kaufman appeared in the 1983 film My Breakfast with Blassie with professional wrestling personality Freddie Blassie "Classy" Freddie Blassie. The film was a parody of the art film My Dinner with Andre. Lynne Margulies, sister of the films director, Johnny Legend, appears in it, and became romantically involved with Kaufman.

In 2002, Kaufman became a playable character in the video game Legends of Wrestling II and a standard character in 2004s Showdown: Legends of Wrestling. In 2008, Jakks Pacific produced for their WWE Classic Superstars toy line an action figure two-pack of Kaufman and Lawler, as well as a separate figures release for each of them.{{citation needed date=January 2017}}

===Appearances===
Although Kaufman made a name for himself as a guest on NBCs Saturday Night Live, his first prime-time appearances were several guest spots as the "Foreign Man" on the Dick Van Dyke variety show Van Dyke and Company in 1976.
He appeared four times on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson The Tonight Show in 1976–78, and three times on The Midnight Special (TV series) The Midnight Special in 1972, 1977, and 1981.{{citation needed date=January 2017}} Kaufman appeared on The Dating Game in 1978, in character as Foreign Man, and cried when the bachelorette chose Bachelor #1, protesting that he had answered all the questions correctly.
His SNL appearances started with the Saturday Night Live (season 1) first show, on October 11, 1975. He made 16 SNL appearances in all, doing routines from his comedy act, such as the Mighty Mouse singalong, Foreign Man, and the Elvis impersonation. After he angered the audience with his female-wrestling routine, Kaufman in January 1983 made a pretaped appearance (his 16th) asking the audience if he should ever appear on the show again, saying he would honor their decision. Saturday Night Live SNL ran a phone vote, and 195,544 people voted to "Dump Andy" while 169,186 people voted to "Keep Andy".
During the SNL episode with the phone poll, many of the cast members stated their admiration for Kaufmans work. After Eddie Murphy read both numbers, he said, "Now, Andy Kaufman is a friend of mine. Keep that in mind when you call. I dont want to have to punch nobody in America in the face", and Mary Gross read the Dump Andy phone number at a rate so fast that audiences were unable to catch it. The final tally was read by Gary Kroeger to a cheering audience. As the credits rolled, announcer Don Pardo said, "This is Don Pardo saying, I voted for Andy Kaufman."
Kaufman made a number of appearances on the daytime edition of The David Letterman Show in 1980, and 11 appearances on Late Night with David Letterman in 1982-83. He made numerous guest spots on other television programs hosted by or starring celebrities like Johnny Cash (1979 Christmas special),
Dick Van Dyke,
Dinah Shore,
Rodney Dangerfield,
Cher,
Dean Martin,
Redd Foxx,
Mike Douglas,
Dick Clark,
and Joe Franklin.
He appeared in his first theatrical film, God Told Me To, in 1976, in which he portrayed a murderous policeman.
He appeared in two other theatrical films, including the 1980 film In God We Tru$t, in which he played a televangelist,
and the 1981 film Heartbeeps, in which he played a robot.
Laurie Anderson worked alongside Kaufman for a time in the 1970s, acting as a sort of "straight man" in a number of his Manhattan and Coney Island performances. One of these performances included getting on a ride that people stand in and get spun around. After everyone was strapped in, Kaufman would start saying how he did not want to be on the ride in a panicked tone and eventually cry. Anderson later described these performances in her 1995 album, The Ugly One with the Jewels.
In 1983, Kaufman appeared on Broadway with Deborah Harry in the play Teaneck Tanzi: The Venus Flytrap.
It closed after just two performances.
==Personal life==
Kaufman never married. His daughter, Maria Bellu-Colonna (born 1969), was the child of an out-of-wedlock relationship with a high-school girlfriend and was placed for adoption.
Bellu-Colonna learned in 1992 that she was Kaufmans daughter when she traced her biological roots by winning a petition of the State of New York for her biological mothers surname. She soon reunited with her mother, grandfather, uncle, and aunt.
Bellu-Colonnas daughter, Brittany, briefly appeared in Man on the Moon (film) Man on the Moon, playing Kaufmans sister Carol as a young child.
In December 1969, Kaufman learned Transcendental Meditation at college.
