Andrew Thomas "Andy" Lee (born 24 May 1981) is an Australian comedian, musician and childrens writer. He is known for working alongside Hamish Blake as part of the comedy duo Hamish &amp; Andy. 

==Personal life==
Andy Lee is the middle child of Michael and Margaret Lee.
Lee has a sister, Alex Miles, who writes pantomimes and stars in the comedy show Porky Pies. He also has an older brother, Cameron, with whom Lee started the band Zoophyte.

Lee attended Balwyn Primary School and Camberwell Grammar School CGS (Camberwell Grammar School). He was also a member of the Scouting Movement, performing in Camberwell Showtime and Melbourne Gang Show. He then went on to study Commerce at the University of Melbourne, where he met comedic partner Hamish Blake in 2001.

In 2006, Lee was announced as Cleos Bachelor of the Year.
Lee previously dated Megan Gale. They ended their relationship in 2010.
In January 2015, it was announced that Lee was dating model and PR Graduate, Rebecca Harding. Their break-up was confirmed by Lee in July 2016. They were reported to have reconciled a few months later.
==Career==

===Hamish &amp; Andy===
{{Main Hamish &amp; Andy}}
File:Hamish &amp; Andy - 2009 ARIA Awards.jpg thumb Lee (left) and Blake (right) at the 2009 ARIA Awards

Lee and Blake teamed with Ryan Shelton and several others to create a show called Radio Karate for RMIT Universitys student television company RMITV, on community-access television station Channel 31 (Australia) Channel 31. They also trained with, and appeared on, RMITs student radio station Student Youth Network SYN, and subsequently had a few spot projects on FOX FM (Melbourne) FOX FM.

Lee and Blake then hosted a comedy programme on Australias Seven Network, The Hamish and Andy Show, which was shortly cancelled after bad ratings. Critics acknowledged their talent, but panned the show as poorly executed.
Since this show, Lee and Blake have almost always performed together. They are now consistently referred to as Hamish &amp; Andy.

Blake and Lee hosted the national (Hit Network) drive-time program Hamish &amp; Andy (radio show) that ran between 4 pm and 6 pm, Monday to Friday. In 2011, the program was cut back to a weekly Friday show due to wanting to pursue other opportunities.
The radio show is considered successful, scoring top positions in the radio ratings in the crucial Sydney and Melbourne markets, as well as Perth, Western Australia Perth.
Their audience share is around 20%, which is the highest ever recorded for a national FM show in Australia.
