Andrew Allan Clyde (March 25, 1892 – May 18, 1967) was a Scottish-born American film and television actor whose career spanned more than four decades. In 1921 he broke into silent films as a Mack Sennett Comedian comic, debuting in "On a Summer Day". He was the fifth of six children of theatrical actor, producer and Stage management manager John Clyde.
Clydes brother David and his sister Jean also became screen actors.
Although Andy Clydes movie career spanned 45 years, he may be best known for his work as California Carlson in the Hopalong Cassidy movie series. He is also known for roles in two television series: the farmer Cully Wilson (Lassie) Cully Wilson in CBSs Lassie (1954 TV series) Lassie and as the neighbor George MacMichael on American Broadcasting Company ABCs The Real McCoys.

==Early years==

In 1912, Clyde first came to the United States on tour in a company performing a play called The Concealed Bed. Years later, at the invitation of his close friend James Finlayson (actor) James Finlayson, he returned to the United States in 1920 to join producer Mack Sennetts roster of comedians.
Clydes mastery of makeup allowed him tremendous versatility; he could play everything from grubby young guttersnipes to old Crank (person) crackpot scientists. He hit upon an "Old age old man" characterization in his Short film short Comedy film comedies, and the masquerade was immediately successful. Adopting a gray wig and Moustache mustache, he used this makeup for the rest of his short-subject career, and the character was so durable that he literally grew into it. He starred in short comedies longer than any other actor (32 years, 1924–56).

He made a successful transition to sound films while in Mack Sennetts employ. In 1932, when the Sennett studio was facing financial problems, Sennett cut Clydes salary. Clyde objected and Sennett put the "old man" costume on character actor Irving Bacon. Audiences reacted adversely, and Sennett abandoned the character. Educational Pictures, Sennetts distributor, took over the Andy Clyde series, which continued for two more years.

Columbia Pictures launched its short subject department in 1934 and Andy Clyde was one of the first comedy stars signed by producer Jules White. Unlike many of the Columbia short-subject comedians who indulged in broad facial and physical gestures, Clyde was subtler and more economical: his comic timing was so good that he could merely lift an eyebrow, shudder slightly, or mutter "My, my, my" for humorous effect. His work for Columbia was prolific enough that, from the mid-1940s, the studio was able to produce lower-budgeted remakes, editing older scenes into the new ones. You Were Never Uglier (1944), for example, was remade with the same principals in 1953 as Hooked and Rooked. Clyde was such an audience favorite that he continued to star in Columbia shorts through 1956. He outlasted every comedian on the Columbia payroll except The Three Stooges.
File:Joan Blondell Andy Clyde Real McCoys 1963.JPG thumb 180px Clyde as George MacMichael, charmed by Joan Blondell as the The Real McCoys McCoyss Aunt Win

Clyde also kept busy as a character actor in feature films; for example, he played a sad provincial postman in the Katharine Hepburn film The Little Minister (1934 film) The Little Minister and Charles Coburns drinking buddy in The Green Years (film) The Green Years. In the 1940s, he gravitated toward outdoor and Western (genre) western adventures. Clyde is well remembered for his roles as a comic sidekick, usually teaming with William Boyd (actor) William Boyd in the Hopalong Cassidy series, as "California Carlson" (a role he also played in the Hopalong Cassidy (radio program) Hopalong Cassidy radio program), or with Whip Wilson in Monogram Pictures Low-budget film low-budget western movies.
