Christopher Ashton Kutcher ({{IPAc-en ˈ k ʊ tʃ ər}}; born February 7, 1978)
is an American actor and investor. He began his acting career portraying Michael Kelso in the Fox Broadcasting Company Fox sitcom That 70s Show (1998–2006). He made his film debut in the romantic comedy Coming Soon (1999 film) Coming Soon (1999) and became known by audiences in the comedy film Dude, Wheres My Car? (2000), which was a box office hit. In 2003, Kutcher moved into romantic comedies, appearing in that year’s Just Married and My Bosss Daughter. In 2003, he created and produced the television series Punkd, also serving as host for the first eight of its ten seasons. In 2004, Kutcher starred in the lead role of the psychological film  The Butterfly Effect.

Kutcher subsequently appeared in more romantic comedies, including Guess Who (film) Guess Who (2005), A Lot Like Love (2005), What Happens in Vegas (2008), and No Strings Attached (film) No Strings Attached (2011). He starred as Walden Schmidt on the CBS sitcom Two and a Half Men (2011–2015). In 2013, Kutcher portrayed Steve Jobs in the biographical film Jobs (film) Jobs. Since 2016, he has starred as Colt Bennett in the Netflix series The Ranch (TV series) The Ranch.

Beyond entertainment, Kutcher is also a venture capitalist. He is a co-founder of the venture capital firm A-Grade Investments. At SXSW on March 14, 2015, Kutcher announced Sound Ventures, the successor to A-Grade Investments managing a fund backed by institutional funding. Kutcher has also successfully invested in several high technology startups. Kutcher has investments in over 60 companies, the most prominent of which include Skype, Foursquare, Airbnb, Path (social network) Path and Fab.com. Kutcher has invested in five startups as of August 2017 - Neighborly, Zenreach, ResearchGate, Kopari Beauty, and Lemonade (insurance) Lemonade, marking his foray into the "insurtech" sector.

==Early life==
Kutcher was born in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, to Diane (née Finnegan), a Procter &amp; Gamble employee, and Larry M. Kutcher, a factory worker.
He has Czech, German, and Irish ancestry.
Kutcher was raised in a "relatively conservative" Catholic family.
He has an older sister named Tausha and a fraternal twin brother named Michael, who had a heart transplant when the brothers were young children. Michael also has cerebral palsy and is a spokesperson for the advocacy organization Reaching for the Stars.
Michaels cardiomyopathy caused Kutchers home life to become increasingly stressful. He has said he "didnt want to come home and find more bad news" about his brother, stating, "I kept myself so busy that I didnt allow myself to feel."
<!--Kutcher stated that, when he was 13, he contemplated committing suicide to save his brothers life with a heart transplant; when he told his father he was considering jumping from a Cedar Rapids hospital balcony, his father dissuaded him from doing so shortly before doctors announced that a transplant had become available from an accident victim in another state.<ref name="hollywood">{{cite web title=Hollywood.com work=Profile: Ashton Kutcher Contemplate url=http://www.hollywood.com/news/detail/article/2439108 archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20050414182642/http://www.hollywood.com/news/detail/article/2439108 archivedate=April 14, 2005 accessdate=October 6, 2007}}</ref>-->
Kutcher attended Washington High School (Cedar Rapids, Iowa) Washington High School in Cedar Rapids for his freshman year, before his family moved to Homestead, Iowa, where he attended Clear Creek Amana School District Clear Creek Amana High School. During high school, he developed a passion for acting and appeared in school plays. His home life worsened when his parents divorced when he was 16. During his senior year, he broke into his high school at midnight with his cousin in an attempt to steal money; he was arrested leaving the scene. Kutcher was convicted of third-degree burglary and sentenced to three years probation and 180 hours of community service. Kutcher stated that although the experience "straightened him out", he lost his girlfriend and anticipated college scholarships, and was ostracized at school and in his community.
Kutcher enrolled at the University of Iowa in August 1996, where his planned major was biochemical engineering, motivated to the desire to find a cure for his brothers heart ailment.
At college, Kutcher was kicked out of his apartment for being too "noisy" and "wild".
Kutcher stated, "I thought I knew everything but I didnt have a clue. I was partying, and I woke up many mornings not knowing what I had done the night before. I played way too hard. I am amazed I am not dead."
To earn money for his tuition, Kutcher worked as a college summer hire in the cereal department for the General Mills plant in Cedar Rapids, and sometimes sold his blood.
While at the University of Iowa, he was approached by a model scout at a bar called The Airliner in Iowa City, Iowa,
and was recruited to enter the "Fresh Faces of Iowa" modeling competition. After placing first, he dropped out of college and won a trip to New York City to the International Modeling and Talent Association (IMTA) Convention. After his stay in New York City, Kutcher returned to Cedar Rapids, before relocating to Los Angeles to pursue a career in acting.
==Career==
===Modeling===
After participating in an IMTA competition in 1998, Kutcher signed with Next modeling agency in New York, appeared in commercials for Calvin Klein, and modelled in Paris and Milan.
===Acting===
File:AshtonKutcherJonCryerHWOFSept2011.jpg thumb right Kutcher with Two and a Half Men co-star Jon Cryer in September 2011
Following his success in modeling, Kutcher moved to Los Angeles after his first audition.
He was cast as Michael Kelso in the television series That 70s Show, from 1998 to 2006. Kutcher was cast in a series of film roles; although he auditioned but was not cast for the role of Danny Walker in Pearl Harbor (film) Pearl Harbor (2001) (replaced by Josh Hartnett), he starred in several comedy films, including Dude, Wheres My Car? (2000), Just Married (2003), and Guess Who (film) Guess Who (2005). He appeared in the 2003 family film Cheaper By The Dozen (2003 film) Cheaper By The Dozen as a self-obsessed actor. In the 2004 drama film The Butterfly Effect, Kutcher played a conflicted young man who time travels. The film received mixed to negative reviews, but was a box office success.
In 2003, Kutcher produced and starred as the host in his own series, MTVs Punkd, that involved hidden camera tricks performed on celebrities. He is also an executive producer of the reality television shows Beauty and the Geek, Adventures in Hollyhood (based around the rap group Three 6 Mafia), The Real Wedding Crashers, and the game show Opportunity Knocks (game show) Opportunity Knocks. Many of his production credits, including Punkd, come through Katalyst Films, a production company he runs with partner Jason Goldberg.
A 2004 interviewer described Kutcher as a "hunky young actor [who] is heading in all different directions at once", including "the hot L.A. restaurant Dolce":
<blockquote>
 "If anything, Im a trier," says Kutcher between puffs of filtered Lucky Strikes. "I think, more than anything, it comes from the fact that my father always had several irons in the fire. Also, I dont want to fail. If something doesnt work out—if That 70s Show got canceled or if I wasnt going to have a film career—I always wanted to have backup contingency plans. So I just started doing other things; and on a half-hour sitcom, youre really only working for 30 hours a week. It allows a lot of time for sitting around, which I always kind of filled with work."
</blockquote>
Because of scheduling conflicts with the filming of The Guardian (2006 film) The Guardian, Kutcher was unable to renew his contract for the eighth and final season of That 70s Show, although he appeared in its first four episodes (credited as a special guest star) and returned for the series finale.
Kutcher produced and starred in the 2010 action comedy, Killers (2010 film) Killers, in which he played a hitman.
In May 2011, Kutcher was announced as Charlie Sheens replacement on the series Two and a Half Men.
Kutchers contract was for one year and was believed to be worth nearly $20 million.
His debut as the character Walden Schmidt, entitled "Nice to Meet You, Walden Schmidt", was seen by 28.7 million people on September 19, 2011. The Nielsen ratings company reported that figure was more than any episode in the shows first eight seasons, when Sheen starred in it.
Kutcher earned $750,000 an episode on the show.
The show ended with a forty-minute series finale "Of Course Hes Dead" on February 19, 2015.

Kutcher appeared as a guest Shark during the seventh season of reality TV show Shark Tank, which premiered on September 25, 2015.
In 2016, he appeared in the Candy, Quahog Marshmallow episode of Family Guy.

Since 2016, he has starred in the Netflix series, The Ranch (TV series) The Ranch, alongside Danny Masterson, Elisha Cuthbert and Debra Winger, playing the role of Colt Bennett, the son of a Colorado rancher (Sam Elliott) returning home from a semi-pro football career to run the family business on the ranch.

===Venture capital===
Beyond the entertainment world, Kutcher has invested in several high technology startups.
Kutcher has investments in over 60 companies, the most prominent of which include Skype, Foursquare, Airbnb, Path (social network) Path and Fab.com.
Kutcher has invested in five startups as of August 2017 - Neighborly, Zenreach, ResearchGate, Kopari Beauty, and most recently, Lemonade (insurance) Lemonade, marking his foray into the "insurtech" sector.
He is a co-founder of the venture capital firm A-Grade Investments
with Guy Oseary and Ron Burkle and fund manager Chris Hollod. At SXSW on March 14, 2015, Kutcher announced Sound Ventures, the successor to A-Grade Investments managing a fund backed by institutional funding.
On October 29, 2013, Lenovo announced that it hired Kutcher as product engineer.
Kutcher was part of the management team for Ooma, a tech start-up launched in September 2007. Ooma is in the Voice over Internet Protocol business and Kutchers role was as Creative Director. He spearheaded a marketing campaign and produced viral videos to promote this service. Kutcher also created an interactive arm of Katalyst called Katalyst Media, with his partner from Katalyst Films, Jason Goldberg. Their first site was the animated cartoon Blah Girls. Ooma revamped its sales and marketing strategy with a new management team in the summer of 2008, replacing Kutcher as their creative director. Rich Buchanan, from Sling Media, became Oomas Chief Marketing Officer.
Kutcher has invested in an Italian restaurant, Dolce
(other owners include Danny Masterson and Wilmer Valderrama) and a Japanese-themed restaurant named Geisha House with locations in Atlanta, Los Angeles, and New York City.
Geisha House went out of business on June 1, 2013.
===Other work===
In 2009, Kutcher established an international human rights organization with his then-wife Demi Moore. DNA Foundation, later known as Thorn (organization) Thorn: Digital Defenders of Children, works to address the sexual exploitation of children and the proliferation of child pornography on a global scale.
On March 23, 2011, Kutcher launched his own Twitter client with UberMedia called A.plus. While the app was initially available exclusively for desktop computers with Adobe Air installed, it eventually became available on mobile platforms, for iPhone, Android (operating system) Android, and BlackBerry. In order to download on one of the 3 mobile platforms, users must first have the UberSocial client installed on their device and then proceed to the devices browser to download A.plus.
In 2013, Kutcher teamed up with Evan Beard and Kendall Dabaghi to launch A Plus (aplus.com) A Plus, where Kutcher is currently Chairman of the Board.
Initially a product discovery service,
it morphed in April 2014 to a social media-driven content platform focused on upbeat stories.
It was officially launched in that incarnation in January 2015.
It has reported 27.5 million monthly uniques in the United States, has an Alexa Internet Alexa rank of about 11787 (4019 in the US), and is ranked by Quantcast as a top 50 site in the US in terms of unique visitors.
Ashton Kutcher received widespread criticism for his appearance in a Popchips ad campaign in May 2012.
The campaign featured Kutcher as an Indian man "looking for love" in a dating ad-style spoof. Kutchers use of brown face paint and a stereotypical Indian accent received a backlash from some online viewers and members of the Indian-American community.
==Personal life==
===Relationships===
Kutcher and actress Demi Moore married on September 24, 2005.
Six years later, on November 17, 2011, Moore announced her intention to end the marriage. After more than a year of separation, Kutcher filed for divorce from Moore on December 21, 2012, in Los Angeles Superior Court, citing irreconcilable differences.
The divorce was finalized on November 27, 2013.
