Beatrice Arthur (born Bernice Frankel; May 13, 1922 – April 25, 2009)
<!-- this birth date is reliably sourced to her birth certificate and the 1930 United States census as well! Please dont change it-->
was an American actress, comedian, singer, Marine, and animal rights activist.
<!-- <ref name="auto">{{cite news last=Mathews first=Dan title=Honorary PETA Director, Bea Arthur Passes On url=http://www.peta.org/b/thepetafiles/archive/2009/04/25/honorary-peta-director-bea-arthur-passes-on.aspx accessdate=November 15, 2013 newspaper=PETA date=April 25, 2009}}</ref> -->
Her career spanned seven decades.

Arthur achieved fame as the character Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms All in the Family (1971–72) and Maude (TV series) Maude (1972–78), and as Dorothy Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls (1985–92), winning Primetime Emmy Award Emmy Awards for both roles. A stage actress both before and after her television success, she won the Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Musical for her performance as Vera Charles in the original cast of Mame (musical) Mame 
(1966).

==Early life==
Beatrice Arthur was born Bernice Frankel on May 13, 1922, to Rebecca ({{née}} Pressner; 1895–1985) and Philip Frankel (1885–1973) in Brooklyn, New York.
Arthur was raised in a American Jews Jewish home with sisters Gertrude and Marian.

In 1933, the Frankel family relocated to Cambridge, Maryland, where her parents subsequently operated a womens clothing shop. She attended Linden Hall (school) Linden Hall School for Girls, an all-girls boarding school in Lititz, Pennsylvania, before enrolling at Blackstone College for Girls in Blackstone, Virginia, where she was active in the schools drama program.{{citation needed date=April 2017}}

During World War II, she worked as a truck driver and typist in the United States Marine Corps Womens Reserve, receiving an Honorable Discharge in September 1944 with the rank of Staff Sergeant.
==Career==
===Theater===
File:U.S. Marine Corps portrait of Beatrice Arthur.jpg thumb right 1943 United States Marine Corps identification card photo
From 1947, Arthur studied at the Dramatic Workshop of The New School in New York, N.Y. with German director Erwin Piscator. Arthur began her acting career as a member of an off Broadway theater group at the Cherry Lane Theatre in New York City in the mid 1940s. On stage, her roles included Lucy Brown in the 1954 Off-Broadway premiere of Marc Blitzsteins English-language adaptation of Kurt Weills The Threepenny Opera, Nadine Fesser in the 1957 premiere of Herman Wouks Natures Way at the Coronet Theatre, Yente the Matchmaker in the 1964 premiere of Fiddler on the Roof on Broadway, and a 1966 Tony Award-winning portrayal of Vera Charles to Angela Lansburys Mame (musical) Mame. She reprised the role in the Mame (film) unsuccessful 1974 film version opposite Lucille Ball. In 1981, she appeared in Woody Allens The Floating Light Bulb.
She made her debut at the Metropolitan Opera in 1994 portraying the Duchess of Krakenthorp, a speaking role, in Gaetano Donizettis La fille du régiment.
===Television===
In 1971, Arthur was invited by Norman Lear to guest-star on his sitcom All in the Family, as Maude Findlay, the cousin of Edith Bunker. An outspoken liberal feminist, Maude was the antithesis role to the conservative Republican character Archie Bunker, who described her as a "New Deal fanatic". Nearly 50, Arthurs tart turn on All in the Family impressed viewers as well as executives at CBS who, she would later recall, asked "Who is that girl? Lets give her her own series."
That series, previewed in her second All in the Family appearance, would be simply titled "Maude (pilot) Maude". The show, debuting in 1972, found her living in the affluent community of Tuckahoe, Westchester County, New York, with her fourth husband Walter (Bill Macy) and divorced daughter Carol (Adrienne Barbeau). Her performance in the role garnered Arthur several Emmy and Golden Globe nominations, including her Emmy win in 1977 for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series. Maude would also earn a place for Arthur in the history of the womens liberation movement.
The series addressed serious sociopolitical topics of the era that were considered taboo for a sitcom, including the Vietnam War, the Nixon Administration, Maudes bid for a United States Congress Congressional seat, divorce, menopause, Substance abuse drug use, alcoholism, nervous breakdown, mental illness, womens lib, gay rights, abortion, and spousal abuse. A prime example is "Maudes Dilemma", a two-part episode airing near Thanksgiving of 1972 in which Maudes character grapples with a late-life pregnancy, ultimately deciding to have an abortion.
Even though abortion was legal in New York State since 1970, as well as in California since its states 1969 on-demand ruling, it was illegal in many other regions of the country and, as such, sparked controversy. As a result, dozens of Network affiliate affiliates refused to broadcast the episode when it was originally scheduled, substituting either a repeat from earlier in the season or a Thanksgiving TV special in its place. However, by the time of the summer rerun season six months later all the flak had died down, and the stations that refused to air the episode upon its first run reinstated it for the reruns the following summer. As a result, a reported 65 million viewers watched the two episode arc either in their first run that November or during the following summer as a rerun.
The episode initially aired two months before the U.S. Supreme Court legalized the procedure nationwide in the Roe v. Wade outcome in January 1973.
By 1978, however, Arthur decided to move on from the series. Later the same year (1978), she costarred in Star Wars Holiday Special, in which she had a song and dance routine in the Mos Eisley Cantina. She hosted The Beatrice Arthur Special on CBS on January 19, 1980, which paired the star in a musical comedy revue with Rock Hudson, Melba Moore and Wayland Flowers and Madame.
Arthur returned to television in the short-lived 1983 sitcom Amandas (an adaptation of the British series Fawlty Towers). Unfortunately, the show was a not a hit with audiences and only 10 of the 13 filmed episodes actually aired.

In 1985, Arthur was cast in The Golden Girls, in which she played Dorothy Zbornak, a divorced substitute teacher living in a Miami house owned by widow Blanche Devereaux (Rue McClanahan). Her other roommates included widow Rose Nylund (Betty White) and Dorothys Sicily Sicilian mother, Sophia Petrillo (Estelle Getty). Getty was actually a year younger than Arthur in real life. The series was a hit, and remained a top-ten ratings fixture for six of its seven seasons. Her performance led to several Emmy nominations over the course of the series and an Emmy win in 1988. Arthur decided to leave the show after seven years, and in 1992 the show was moved from NBC to CBS and retooled as The Golden Palace in which the other three actresses reprised their roles, with Cheech Marin as their new foil. Arthur made a guest appearance in a two-part episode, but the new series lasted only one season.
===Film===
File:Maude Bea Arthur 1973.jpg thumb Bea Arthur as Maude, circa 1973
Arthur sporadically appeared in films, reprising her stage role as Vera Charles in the 1974 film adaption of Mame (film) Mame, opposite Lucille Ball. She portrayed overbearing mother Bea Vecchio in Lovers and Other Strangers (1970), and had a cameo as a Roman unemployment clerk in Mel Brooks History of the World, Part I (1981). She appeared in the 1995 American movie For Better or Worse (film) For Better or Worse as Beverly Makeshift. {{citation needed date=June 2014}}

===Later career===
After Arthur left The Golden Girls, she made several guest appearances on television shows and organized and toured in her one-woman show, alternately titled An Evening with Bea Arthur as well as And Then Theres Bea.
She made a guest appearance on the American cartoon Futurama, in the Emmy Award Emmy-nominated 2001 episode "Amazon Women in the Mood", as the voice of the Femputer who ruled the giant Amazonian women.
She appeared in a first-season episode of Malcolm in the Middle as Mrs. White, one of Deweys babysitters.
She was nominated for an Emmy for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Comedy Series for her performance.
She also appeared as Larry Davids mother on Curb Your Enthusiasm.
In 2002, she returned to Broadway theatre Broadway, starring in Bea Arthur on Broadway: Just Between Friends, a collection of stories and songs (with musician Billy Goldenberg) based on her life and career.
The show was nominated for a Tony Award for Best Special Theatrical Event.
In addition to appearing in a number of programs looking back at her own work, Arthur performed in stage and television tributes for Jerry Herman, Bob Hope, Ellen DeGeneres. In 2004, she appeared in Richard Barones "Therell Be Another Spring: A Tribute to Miss Peggy Lee" at the Hollywood Bowl, performing "Johnny Guitar" and "The Shining Sea". In 2005, she participated in the Comedy Central roast of Pamela Anderson, where she recited sexually explicit passages from Andersons book Star Struck in a deadpan fashion.
===Influences===
In 1999, Arthur told an interviewer of the three influences in her career: "Sid Caesar taught me the outrageous; [method acting guru] Lee Strasberg taught me what I call reality; and [original Threepenny Opera star] Lotte Lenya, whom I adored, taught me economy."
Another source of influence to Arthur, was that of famed actress/director Ida Lupino whom Arthur praised as, "My dream was to become a very small blonde movie star like Ida Lupino and those other women I saw up there on the screen during the Great Depression Depression.
"

==Personal life==
Arthur was married twice. Her first marriage took place during her time in the military
<!-- This cant be right, if she was discharged in 1945, and married in 1947, how did the marriage "take place during her time in the military"? -->
, when she married fellow Marine Robert Alan Aurthur,
<!-- Yes, this IS the correct spelling, as youll discover if you read on a little -->
