Benjamin Edward Meara Stiller (born November 30, 1965) is an American actor, comedian, writer, producer, and director. He is the son of veteran comedians and actors Jerry Stiller and Anne Meara.

After beginning his acting career with a play, Stiller wrote several mockumentaries, and was offered his own show entitled The Ben Stiller Show, which he produced and hosted for its thirteen-episode run. Having previously acted in television, he began acting in films; he made his directorial debut with Reality Bites. Throughout his career he has written, starred in, directed or produced more than fifty films including The Secret Life of Walter Mitty (2013 film) The Secret Life of Walter Mitty, Zoolander, The Cable Guy, Theres Something About Mary, the Meet the Parents (series) Meet the Parents trilogy, DodgeBall: A True Underdog Story DodgeBall, Tropic Thunder, the Madagascar (franchise) Madagascar series, and the Night at the Museum (film series) Night at the Museum trilogy. In addition, he has had multiple cameo appearance cameos in music videos, television shows, and films.
Stiller is a member of a group of comedic actors colloquially known as the Frat Pack. His films have grossed more than $2.6 billion in Canada and the United States, with an average of $79 million per film.
Throughout his career, he has received multiple awards and honors, including an Emmy Award, multiple MTV Movie Awards, and a Teen Choice Awards Teen Choice Award.

==Early life==
Benjamin Edward Meara Stiller
was born on November 30, 1965 in New York City.
His father, comedian and actor Jerry Stiller, is from a Jewish family that emigrated from Poland and Galicia (Central Europe) Galicia in Central Europe.
His mother, actress and comedian Anne Meara, who was from an Irish Catholic background, Conversion to Judaism converted to Reform Judaism after marrying his father.
While the family was "never very religious", they celebrated both Hanukkah and Christmas,
and Stiller had a Bar and Bat Mitzvah Bar Mitzvah.
His parents frequently took him on the sets of their appearances, including The Mike Douglas Show when he was six.
He considered his childhood unusual, stating "In some ways, it was a show-business upbringing—a lot of traveling, a lot of late nights—not what youd call traditional."
His elder sister, Amy, has appeared in many of his productions, including Reality Bites, DodgeBall: A True Underdog Story, and Zoolander.
Stiller displayed an early interest in filmmaking and made Super 8 film Super 8 movies with his sister and friends.
At nine years old, he made his acting debut as a guest on his mothers short-lived television series, Kate McShane. In the late 1970s, he performed with the New York City troupe NYCs First All Childrens Theater, playing several roles, including the title role in Clever Jack and the Magic Beanstalk.
After being inspired by the television show Second City Television while in high school, Stiller realized that he wanted to get involved with sketch comedy.
During his high school years, he was also the drummer of the punk rock punk band Capital Punishment, which released a studio album named Roadkill in 1982.
Stiller attended The Cathedral School of St. John the Divine, New York The Cathedral School of St. John the Divine and graduated from the Calhoun school Calhoun School in New York in 1983. He started performing on the cabaret circuit as opening act to the cabaret siren Jadin Wong. Stiller then enrolled as a film student at the University of California, Los Angeles.
After nine months, Stiller left school to move back to New York City.
