Bernard Jeffrey McCullough (October 5, 1957 – August 9, 2008
), better known by his stage name Bernie Mac, was an Americans American stand-up comedian, actor, and voice actor. Born and raised on Chicagos South Side, Chicago South Side, Mac gained popularity as a Stand-up comedy stand-up comedian. He joined fellow comedians Steve Harvey, Cedric the Entertainer, and D. L. Hughley in the film The Original Kings of Comedy. After briefly hosting the HBO show Midnight Mac, Mac appeared in several films in smaller roles. His most noted film role was as Frank Catton in the remake Oceans Eleven and the title character of Mr. 3000. He was the star of The Bernie Mac Show, which ran from 2001 through 2006, earning him two Emmy Award nominations for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series. Macs other films included starring roles in Booty Call, Friday (1995 film) Friday, The Players Club, Head of State (film) Head of State, Charlies Angels: Full Throttle, Bad Santa, Guess Who (film) Guess Who, Pride (2007 film) Pride, Soul Men, Transformers (film) Transformers, Old Dogs (film) Old Dogs, and Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa.

==Early life and education==
Born Bernard Jeffrey McCullough in Chicago, Illinois,
Mac was the second child of Mary McCullough and Jeffery Harrison.
Mac was raised by his single mother (who died of cancer when he was sixteen years old) and his grandparents on the citys south side.
Mac began his high school career at Chicago Vocational High School. During 1973, Mac moved to Tampa, Florida to attend Jesuit High School (Tampa) Jesuit High School after the death of his mother during his sophomore year.
Mac later returned to Chicago and graduated from Chicago Vocational in 1975.
Mac married his high school sweetheart Rhonda Gore on September 17, 1977 and together they had a daughter JaNiece Childress (née McCollough) born in 1978. During his 20s through his early 30s, Mac worked in a variety of jobs, including janitor, coach, professional mover, cook, bus driver, Sears Delivery man, furniture mover and a United Parcel Service UPS agent while doing comedy on the weekends at funerals, clubs, and parties.
==Career==
Bernie Macs influences were from The Three Stooges and listening to stand-up comedians Richard Pryor and Redd Foxx. Mac started as a stand-up comedian in Chicagos Cotton Club. After he won the Miller Lite Comedy Search at the age of 32, his popularity as a comedian began to grow. A performance on HBOs Def Comedy Jam thrust him into the spotlight; after Martin Lawrence was unable to calm an increasingly hostile crowd, Mac went onstage and famously said, "I aint scared o you mothafuckas", telling the audience that he "didnt come here for no foolishness". Macs comedy and fearlessness on stage cemented his reputation with fans and colleagues. Mac opened for Dionne Warwick, Redd Foxx and Natalie Cole. He played a small role in 1994s House Party 3 as Uncle Vester. He also had a short-lived talk show on HBO titled Midnight Mac. Later, Mac also acted in minor roles and got his big break as "Pastor Clever" in Ice Cubes 1995 film Friday (1995 film) Friday. Following that role, Mac had his first starring role as "Dollar Bill", a silly, slick-talking club owner in The Players Club. Mac was able to break from the traditional "black comedy" genre, having roles in the 2001 remake of Oceans Eleven and becoming the new Bosley for the Charlies Angels (2000 film) Charlies Angels sequel, Charlies Angels: Full Throttle. In 2003 he gave an impressive performance in a supporting role as the villain "Gin Slagel, The Store Dick" in Bad Santa. He also starred in Guess Who (film) Guess Who?, a comedic remake of the film Guess Whos Coming to Dinner, and made an appearance in the 2007 film Transformers (film) Transformers as the car salesman "Bobby Bolivia". In his later years, he hosted the reality television talent show Last Comic Standing. He also served as the voice of Zuba, Alex the Lions long lost father in Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa. He co-starred with Samuel L. Jackson in the 2008 in film 2008 musical comedy Soul Men as "Floyd Henderson". His final film role was as Jimmy Lunchbox in the 2009 in film 2009 Walt Disney Pictures Disney film Old Dogs (film) Old Dogs which was released a year after his death. He starred alongside John Travolta and Robin Williams in that film.

File:BernieMacTransformersPremiereJune07.jpg thumb 200px Bernie Mac at the Transformers (film) Transformers premiere in 2007
In 2001 the Fox network gave Mac his own television sitcom called The Bernie Mac Show portraying a Bernie McCullough fictional version of himself. In the show, he suddenly becomes Legal guardian custodian of his sisters three children after she enters Drug rehabilitation rehab. It was a success, in part because it allowed Mac to stay true to his stand-up comedy roots, breaking the fourth wall to communicate his thoughts to the audience. The show contained many parodies of events in Bernies actual life. Bernie, who grew up on Chicagos South Side, was a fan of the Chicago White Sox, and would often sneak a reference to his favorite team in his episodes, including enlisting then White Sox pitcher Jon Garland to make a guest cameo appearance. Bernie Macs "fourth wall" technique allowed him a moment of heartfelt sincerity during the sitcoms 2005 season when, sitting in his customary easy chair and facing the audience before the start of an episode, Bernie unabashedly donned a White Sox jacket and cap, and congratulated his hometown Chicago White Sox and their staff members, on their recent World Series championship.

The show was not renewed after the 2005–2006 season. The series finale aired on April 14, 2006. However, the finale left a conclusion for the series, and no ending to the storyline of Bernie and Wanda trying to adopt a baby which had been abandoned a few episodes earlier. Among other awards, the show won an Emmy Award Emmy
for "Outstanding Writing", the Peabody Award for excellence in broadcasting, and the Humanitas Prize for television writing that promotes human dignity.
His character on The Bernie Mac Show was ranked #47 in TV Guide{{s}} list of the "50 Greatest TV Dads of All Time".
In 2004 Bernie Mac starred as a retired baseball player in the film Mr. 3000. In the 2003 National League Championship Series, Mac sang "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" at Wrigley Field with the Chicago Cubs leading the Florida Marlins in the series 3 games to 2 and in Game 6 by a 2–0 score at the time (it would soon be 3–0 in the bottom of the 7th). Instead of saying "root, root, root for the Cubbies" Mac said, "root, root, root for the champs!, champs!" The Cubs lost the game and the series, with some fans claiming that Mac helped jinx the Cubs. Mac later admitted that he had hated the North Sides Cubs his whole life, being a die-hard fan of the South Sides Chicago White Sox White Sox, and was seen during the White Sox 2005 World Series victory at U.S. Cellular Field. Mac was number 72 on Comedy Centrals list of the 100 greatest standups of all time. On March 19, 2007, Mac told David Letterman on the CBS Late Show with David Letterman Late Show that he would retire from his 30-year career after he finished shooting the comedy film, The Whole Truth, Nothing but the Truth, So Help Me Mac. "Im going to still do my producing, my films, but I want to enjoy my life a little bit", Mac told Letterman. "I missed a lot of things, you know. I was a street performer for two years. I went into clubs in 1977 and was on the road 47 weeks out of the year."
==Health problems and death==
In the final three years of his life, Mac publicly disclosed that he had suffered from sarcoidosis, a disease of unknown origin that causes inflammation in tissue. Sarcoidosis frequently attacked his lungs.
In 2008, Mac was admitted to the Northwestern Memorial Hospital in his hometown of Chicago, Illinois. After a week of unsuccessful medical treatment, Mac went into cardiac arrest and subsequently died during the early morning hours on August 9, from complications of pneumonia. He was 50 years old.  Macs public funeral was held a week after his death at the House of Hope Church with nearly 7,000 people in attendance.
Notable mourners at Macs funeral were Chris Rock, Mayor of Chicago Chicago Mayor Richard M. Daley, Samuel L. Jackson, Ashton Kutcher, Don Cheadle, the cast members from The Bernie Mac Show his eponymous series and his Kings of Comedy fellows D. L. Hughley, Cedric the Entertainer and Steve Harvey.

===Tributes===
The first two of Macs posthumous films Soul Men and Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa were released three months after his death. Macs third and final posthumous film, Old Dogs (film) Old Dogs, was released a year after his death. The 2008 Bud Billiken Parade and Picnic Bud Billiken Parade, which was held in Chicago on the day of Macs death, was also dedicated to his memory.
