William Melvin Hicks
(December 16, 1961 – February 26, 1994) was an American stand-up comedian, social criticism social critic, Satire satirist and musician. His material, encompassing a wide range of social issues including religion, politics, and philosophy, was controversial, and often steeped in black comedy dark comedy.

At the age of 16, while still in high school, he began performing at the Comedy Workshop in Houston, Texas. During the 1980s, he toured the United States extensively and made a number of high-profile television appearances; but it was in the UK that he amassed a significant fan base, filling large venues during his 1991 tour.
He also achieved a modicum of recognition as a guitarist and songwriter.

Hicks died of pancreatic cancer on February 26, 1994, in Little Rock, Arkansas, at the age of 32. In subsequent years his work gained a significant measure of acclaim in creative circles—particularly after a series of posthumous album releases—and he developed a substantial cult following. In 2007 he was voted sixth on Britains Channel 4 list of the 100 Greatest Stand-Up Comics,
and rose to number four on the 2010 list.
In 2017, Rolling Stone magazine ranked him thirteenth on its list of the 50 best stand-up comics of all time.
==Early life==
Hicks was born in Valdosta, Georgia, the son of James Melvin "Jim" Hicks (1923–2006) and Mary Reese Hicks, the younger sibling of Lynn and Steve. The family lived in Florida, Alabama, and New Jersey before settling in Houston, Texas, when Bill was seven.
He was drawn to comedy at an early age, emulating Woody Allen and Richard Pryor, and writing routines with his friend Dwight Slade. At school he began performing comedy, mostly derivations of Woody Allen material, for his classmates.
At home, he would write his own one-liners and slide them under the bedroom door of his brother Steve, the only family member Bill respected, for his critical analysis. "Keep it up", Steve told him. "Youre really good at this."
Early on, Hicks began to mock his familys Southern Baptist Convention Southern Baptist religious beliefs. "We were Yuppie Baptists," he joked to the Houston Post in 1987. "We worried about things like, If you scratch your neighbors Subaru, should you leave a note?"
Biographer Cynthia True described a typical argument with his father: {{quote The elder Hicks would say, "I believe that the Bible is the literal word of God." And Bill would counter, "No its not, Dad." "Well, I believe that it is." "Well," Bill replied, "you know, some people believe that theyre Napoleon. Thats fine. Beliefs are neat. Cherish them, but dont share them like theyre the truth."
}} Hicks did not, however, reject spiritual ideology itself, and throughout his life he sought various alternative methods of experiencing it. Kevin Slade, elder brother of Dwight, introduced him to Transcendental Meditation technique Transcendental Meditation and other forms of spirituality. Over one Thanksgiving weekend he took Hicks and Dwight to a TM residence course in Galveston.
Worried about his rebellious behavior, his parents took him to a psychoanalyst at age 17. According to Hicks, after the first group session the analyst took him aside and told him, "You can continue coming if you want to, but its them, not you."
==Career==

===Beginnings===
Hicks was associated with the Texas Outlaw Comics group developed at the Comedy Workshop in Houston in the 1980s.
===California and New York===
By January 1986, Hicks was using recreational drugs and his financial resources had dwindled.
However his career received another upturn in 1987, when he appeared on Rodney Dangerfields Young Comedians Special.
The same year, he moved to New York City, and for the next five years performed about 300 times a year.
On the album Relentless, he jokes that he quit using drugs because "once youve been taken aboard a UFO, its kind of hard to top that", although in his performances, he continued to extol the virtues of Lysergic acid diethylamide LSD, cannabis (drug) marijuana, and psilocybin mushroom psychedelic mushrooms.
He eventually fell back to chain smoking,
a theme that would figure heavily in his performances from then on. His nicotine addiction, love of smoking, and occasional attempts to quit became a recurring theme in his act throughout his later years.

In 1988, Hicks signed on with his first professional business manager, Jack Mondrus.
On the track "Modern Bummer" of his 1990 album Dangerous (Bill Hicks album) Dangerous, Hicks says he quit drinking alcohol in 1988.

In 1989, he released his first video, Sane Man; a remastered version with 30 minutes of extra footage was released in 1999.
===Early fame===
File:Bill Hicks at the Laff Stop in Austin, Texas, 1991.jpg thumb upright Bill Hicks at the Laff Stop in Austin, Texas, 1991
In 1990, Hicks released his first album, Dangerous, performed on the HBO special One Night Stand, and performed at Montreals Just for Laughs festival.
He was also part of a group of American stand-up comedians performing in Londons West End in November. Hicks was a huge hit in the UK and Ireland and continued touring there throughout 1991.
That year, he returned to Just for Laughs and filmed his second video, Relentless.

Hicks made a brief detour into musical recording with the Marble Head Johnson album in 1992 collaborating with Houston high school friend Kevin Booth and Austin Texas drummer Pat Brown. During the same year he toured the UK, where he recorded the Revelations video
for Channel 4. He closed the show with his soon-to become-famous philosophy regarding life, "Its Just a Ride." Also in that tour he recorded the stand-up performance released in its entirety on a double CD entitled, Salvation. Hicks was voted "Hot Standup Comic" by Rolling Stone Rolling Stone magazine in 1993. He moved to Los Angeles in 1992.{{Citation needed date=August 2011}}

===Hicks and Tool===
Progressive metal band Tool (band) Tool invited Hicks to open a number of concerts in its 1993 Lollapalooza appearances, where Hicks once asked the audience to look for a contact lens he had lost. Thousands of people complied.
Members of Tool felt that they and Hicks "were resonating similar concepts".
Intending to raise awareness about Hickss material and ideas, Tool dedicated their triple-platinum
album Ænima (1996) to Hicks. Both the Lenticular printing lenticular casing of the Ænima album packaging as well as the chorus of the title track "Ænema" make reference to a sketch from Hickss Arizona Bay album, in which he contemplates the idea of Los Angeles falling into the Pacific Ocean. Ænima{{}}s final track, "Third Eye (song) Third Eye" contains samples from Hickss Dangerous and Relentless albums.
An alternate version of the Ænima artwork shows a painting of Bill Hicks, calling him "Another Dead Hero," and mentions of Hicks are found both in the liner notes and on the record.

===Censorship and aftermath===
In 1984, Hicks was invited to appear on Late Night with David Letterman for the first time. He had a joke that he used frequently in comedy clubs about how he caused a serious accident that left a classmate using a wheelchair. NBC had a policy that no handicapped jokes could be aired on the show, making his stand-up routine difficult to perform without mentioning words such as "wheelchair."{{citation needed date=February 2015 reason=Quotations must be verifiably attributed to a reliable source per MOS:QUOTE}}

On October 1, 1993, Hicks was scheduled to appear on Late Show with David Letterman on CBS, where Letterman had recently moved. It was his 12th appearance on a Letterman late-night show, but his entire performance was removed from the broadcast: until that point the only occasion where a comedians entire routine was cut after taping.
Hicks stand-up routine was removed from the show, Hicks said, because Lettermans producers believed the material, which included jokes involving religion and the Opposition to the legalization of abortion anti-abortion movement, was unsuitable for broadcast.
