Robert John Odenkirk (born October 22, 1962) is an American actor, comedian, writer, director, and producer. He is best known for his role as smooth-talking lawyer Saul Goodman Saul Goodman/Jimmy McGill on the AMC (TV channel) AMC crime drama series Breaking Bad and its spin-off Better Call Saul, and for the HBO sketch comedy series Mr. Show with Bob and David, which he co-created and starred in with fellow comic and friend David Cross.
From the late 1980s to 1990s, Odenkirk worked as a writer for television shows Saturday Night Live and The Ben Stiller Show, winning two Emmys for his work. He also wrote for Late Night with Conan OBrien, Get a Life (TV series) Get a Life, and acted in a recurring role as Agent Stevie Grant in The Larry Sanders Show. In the early 2000s, Odenkirk discovered the comedy duo Tim &amp; Eric and produced their television series Tom Goes to the Mayor and Tim and Eric Awesome Show, Great Job! He directed three films, Melvin Goes to Dinner (2003), Lets Go to Prison (2006) and The Brothers Solomon (2007). He was also an executive producer of the sketch comedy show The Birthday Boys (TV series) The Birthday Boys, developing the show with the comedy group after seeing their work at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre in Los Angeles. In 2015, he and David Cross reunited, along with the rest of the Mr. Show cast, for W/ Bob &amp; David on Netflix. Odenkirk co-wrote, produced and starred in the Netflix original film Girlfriends Day which was released in 2017.  

The success of Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul led to acting work in high profile projects, such as Nebraska (film) Nebraska, directed by Alexander Payne, The Post (film) The Post, directed by Steven Spielberg, and Disney/Pixars Incredibles 2 written and directed by Brad Bird.

==Early life==
Odenkirk was born in Berwyn, Illinois, then raised in Naperville, Illinois Naperville. He is one of seven siblings born to Walter Odenkirk, who was employed in the printing business, and Barbara Odenkirk,
Roman Catholics of German and Irish descent.
His parents divorced in part due to Walters alcoholism, which influenced Bobs decision to teetotalism avoid alcohol as much as possible. He would later say that he grew up "hating" Naperville because "it felt like a dead end, like Nowheresville. I couldnt wait to move into a city and be around people who were doing exciting things."
