George Robert Newhart (born September 5, 1929) is an American stand-up comedy stand-up comedian and actor, noted for his deadpan and slightly stammering delivery. Newhart came to prominence in 1960 when his album of comedic monologues, The Button-Down Mind of Bob Newhart, became a worldwide bestseller and reached number one on the Billboard pop album chart; it remains the 20th-best selling comedy album in history.
The follow-up album, The Button-Down Mind Strikes Back!, was also a success, and the two albums held the Billboard number one and number two spots simultaneously.
Newhart later went into acting, starring as Chicago psychologist Dr. Robert Hartley in The Bob Newhart Show during the 1970s and then as Vermont innkeeper Dick Loudon on the 1980s in television 1980s series Newhart. He also had two short-lived sitcoms in the 1990s titled Bob (TV series) Bob and George and Leo. Newhart also appeared in film roles such as Major Major Major Major Major Major in Catch-22 (film) Catch-22 and Papa Elf in Elf (movie) Elf. He provided the voice of Bernard in the The Walt Disney Company Walt Disney animated films The Rescuers and The Rescuers Down Under. In 2004, he played the library head List of characters in The Librarian franchise#Judson (Bob Newhart) Judson in The Librarian (franchise) The Librarian, a character which continued in 2014 to the TV series The Librarians (2014 TV series) The Librarians. In 2013, Newhart made his first of five guest appearances on The Big Bang Theory as Professor Proton, for which he received his first Primetime Emmy Award on September 15, 2013.
==Early life==
Newhart was born on September 5, 1929 at West Suburban Hospital in Oak Park, Illinois.
His parents were George David Newhart (1899–1986), a part-owner of a plumbing and heating-supply business, and Julia Pauline (née Burns; 1901–1991), a housewife. His mother was of Irish people Irish descent and his father was of English people English, Irish, and German people German ancestry.
One of his grandmothers was from St. Catharines, Ontario, Canada.
Newhart has three sisters: Virginia, Mary Joan (a nun, who taught at the all-girls Carmel High School in Mundelein, Illinois), and Pauline.

Newhart was educated at Roman Catholic Church Roman Catholic schools in the Chicago area, including St. Catherine of Siena grammar school in Oak Park, and attended St. Ignatius College Prep (high school), graduating in 1947. He then enrolled at Loyola University of Chicago from which he graduated in 1952 with a bachelors degree in business management.

Newhart was drafted into the United States Army and served in the United States during the Korean War as a personnel manager until being discharged in 1954. Newhart briefly attended Loyola University Chicago School of Law, but did not complete a degree, in part, he says, because he was asked to behave unethically during an internship.
