Robert Francis Goldthwait (born May 26, 1962), better known as Bobcat Goldthwait, is an American comedian, filmmaking filmmaker, actor and voice acting voice artist, known for his acerbic black comedy, delivered through an energetic stage persona with an unusual gruff and high-pitched voice. He came to prominence with his stand-up specials An Evening with Bobcat Goldthwait – Share the Warmth and Bob Goldthwait – Is He Like That All the Time? and his acting roles, including List of Police Academy characters#Cadet.2FOff. Zed McGlunk Zed in the Police Academy (franchise) Police Academy franchise.

Goldthwait has written and directed a number of films and television series, most notably the black comedies Shakes the Clown (1991), in which he also starred, Sleeping Dogs Lie (2006 film) Sleeping Dogs Lie (2006), Worlds Greatest Dad (2009), God Bless America (film) God Bless America (2011), and the horror film Willow Creek (film) Willow Creek (2013); episodes of Chappelles Show (2003), Jimmy Kimmel Live! (2004–07), and Maron (TV series) Maron (2013–15); and several stand-up specials, including Patton Oswalt: Tragedy Plus Comedy Equals Time (2014).

He has also worked extensively as a voice actor, with voice roles in Capitol Critters (1992–95), Hercules (1997 film) Hercules (1997), and Hercules: The Animated Series (1998–99).

==Early life==
Robert Francis Goldthwait was born on May 26, 1962 in Syracuse, New York, the son of Kathleen Ann (Welch), a department store employee, and Thomas Lincoln Goldthwait, a sheet metal worker.
He was raised in a Catholic working-class family.
At an early age, Goldthwait decided on a career as a comedian and was performing professionally while still in high school at age 15. He attended St. Matthews grammar school in East Syracuse, New York, where he met Tom Kenny in first grade.
In 1980, they graduated together from Bishop Grimes Junior/Senior High School in East Syracuse, New York.{{citation needed date=June 2017}} They formed a comedy troupe
<!-- with Tom Nettle -->
called The Generic Comics.
In their mid-teens, they saw an ad for an open-mic night in Skaneateles (town), New York Skaneateles that featured comedian Barry Crimmins with the moniker "Bear Cat". He and Kenny went to the event and performed under the monikers Bobcat and Tomcat, respectively, as a tribute to Crimmins.
Early in his career, Goldthwait also co-wrote with Martin Olson, who is listed as writer on his first two comedy specials Share the Warmth and Dont Watch This Show.{{citation needed date=June 2017}}

==Career==

===Stand-up===
Goldthwait became recognized as a solo stand-up comedian and had a record "Meat Bob" and two televised concert specials in the 1980s: An Evening with Bobcat Goldthwait – Share the Warmth and Bob Goldthwait – Is He Like That All the Time? He became known for his unique brand of comedy, which combines elements of political satire and often bizarre or unsettling black comedy.

Goldthwait filmed a half-hour HBO special in 1995, and another comedy album in 2003 I Dont Mean to Insult You, But You Look Like Bobcat Goldthwait and in 2004 his stand-up was featured in Comedy Centrals animated series Shorties Watchin Shorties. Goldthwait announced his retirement from stand-up in 2005 and performed a "final" run in Las Vegas Valley Vegas in September 2005;{{Citation needed date=October 2007}} he briefly resumed touring in early 2008 (from January through April); he performed again in 2009, doing stand-up in Winnipeg on April 3 and 4, and again in Omaha on August 28 and 29; he returned to Winnipeg for 4 shows on April 9 and 10, 2010. He released a one-hour stand-up special in 2011 "You Dont Look the Same Either".

During the fall of 1993, Goldthwait performed stand-up material as an opening act for Nirvana (band) Nirvana on what would be their final North American tour, angering audiences in Chicago after making a joke about Michael Jordans recently murdered father. He also appeared in a promo video for the bands album In Utero (album) In Utero and once fooled an interviewer during a phone interview, impersonating Dave Grohl. At midnight on New Years Eve 1993, Goldthwait rappelled nude from a catwalk of the stage at the Oakland Coliseum as Kurt Cobain led a countdown.
===Acting===
Goldthwait and Robin Williams appeared on the same bill together, but not as a comedy team, using the names "Jack Cheese" and "Marty Fromage." Goldthwait used the name Jack Cheese when he appeared in Tapeheads; when Williams made a cameo as Mime Jerry in Goldthwaits Shakes the Clown, he was billed as Marty Fromage.

Goldthwait has appeared in several films. His first major role was List of Police Academy characters#Cadet/Off. Zed McGlunk Zed in the Police Academy (film series)  Police Academy franchise. He starred in One Crazy Summer, Burglar (film) Burglar, Scrooged and Hot to Trot. In 1992, Goldthwait directed, wrote, and starred in Shakes the Clown. He also made an appearance as a writer in Radioland Murders.
