Carl Reiner (born March 20, 1922)
is an United States American comedian, actor, director, and writer whose career spans seven decades.

During the early years of television comedy from 1950 to 1957, he co-wrote and acted on Caesars Hour and  Your Show of Shows, starring Sid Caesar. In the 1960s, Reiner was best known as the creator, producer, writer, and actor on The Dick Van Dyke Show.
He also had great success as a film director and writer and partnered with Steve Martin in the 1970s when Reiner co-wrote and/or directed some of Martins most successful films, including the 1979 film The Jerk.

Reiner formed a Double act comedy duo with Mel Brooks in "2000 Year Old Man" and acted in films such as The Russians Are Coming, the Russians Are Coming (1966) and the Oceans Trilogy (2001–2007). Reiner has won nine Emmy Awards
and one Grammy Award during his career. He is the father of actor and director Rob Reiner, author Annie Reiner, and grandfather to Tracy Reiner.

==Early life==
Reiner was born in The Bronx, New York on March 20, 1922, the son of Irving (1886–1966), a watchmaker, and Bessie (née Mathias) Reiner (1880–1968).
His parents were Jews Jewish immigrants; his father was from First Austrian Republic Austria and his mother was from Kingdom of Romania Romania.
His older brother Charlie (1918-2001) served in the 9th Divisions 37th Infantry at 11 major World War II battles and had his ashes buried at Arlington National Cemetery.
At age 16, Charlie read in the New York Daily News about a free dramatic workshop being put on by the Works Progress Administration and told Carl about it. His uncle Harry Mathias was the first entertainer in his family.
He had been working as a machinist repairing sewing machines. He credits Charlie with changing his career plans.
===Military service===
In 1943, Reiner was drafted into the United States Army Air Forces Army Air Forces and served during World War II, eventually achieving the rank of corporal. He initially trained to be a radio operator, but after spending three months in the hospital recovering from pneumonia, he was sent to Georgetown University for ten months to train as a French interpreter. During language training, he had his first experience as a director, putting on a Molière play entirely in French. In 1944, after completing language training, he was sent to Hawaii to work as a teleprinter operator.  The night before he was to ship out for an unknown assignment, he attended a production of Hamlet by the Special Services (entertainment) Special Services entertainment unit. Following an audition for actor and Major Maurice Evans (actor) Maurice Evans, he was transferred to the Special Services. Reiner performed around the Pacific theater, entertaining troops in Hawaii, Guam, Saipan, Tinian, and Iwo Jima for the next two years. In 1946, he was discharged.
==Career==
Reiner performed in several Broadway theatre Broadway musicals (including Inside U.S.A. and Alive and Kicking (musical) Alive and Kicking) and had the lead role in Call Me Mister. In 1950, he was cast by Max Leibman in Sid Caesars Your Show of Shows, appearing on air in skits while also working alongside writers, such as Mel Brooks and Neil Simon. Reiner also worked on Caesars Hour with Brooks, Simon, Larry Gelbart, Mel Tolkin, Mike Stewart, Aaron Ruben, Sheldon Keller, and Gary Belkin.

Starting in 1960, Reiner teamed with Brooks as a Double act comedy duo on The Steve Allen Show. Their performances on television and stage included Reiner playing the straight man in 2000 Year Old Man. Eventually, the routine expanded into a series of 5 comedy albums and a 1975 animated television special, with the last album in the series winning a Grammy Award for Spoken Comedy Album.
The act gave Brooks "an identity as a comic performer for the first time," said Reiner.
Brookss biographer, William Holtzman, called their 12-minute act "an ingenious jazz improvisation ...",
