Carol Leifer ({{IPAc-en ˈ l iː f ər}} {{respell LEE fər}};
born July 27, 1956) is an American comedian, writer, Television producer producer and actress whose career as a stand-up comedian started in the 1970s when she was in college. David Letterman discovered her performing in a comedy club in the 1980s and she has since been a guest on Late Night with David Letterman over twenty-five times as well as numerous other shows and venues. She has written many television scripts including for The Larry Sanders Show, Saturday Night Live and Seinfeld.
Leifers inner-monologue driven, observational style is often autobiographical encompassing subjects about her Jewish ancestry and upbringing, coming out, same-sex marriage, relationships (having been married previously to a man and now partnered with a woman) and parenting.
==Early life==
Leifer was born in East Williston, New York, to an Ashkenazi Jews Ashkenazi Jewish family, the daughter of Anna, a psychologist, and Seymour Leifer, an optometrist.
While studying for a theater degree at Binghamton University, Leifer accompanied her then boyfriend Paul Reiser to a comedy club to see him perform at the open mic night at Catch a Rising Star (comedy clubs) Catch A Rising Star. Later she tried performing at New Yorks Comic Strip and was introduced by emcee Jerry Seinfeld.
==Career==
File:Carol Leifer headshot.jpg thumb Carol Leifer

Leifer is a stand-up comedian, writer, Television producer producer and actor.

She performed stand-up comedy on Late Night with David Letterman 25 times. Leifer also appeared on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson, Dr. Katz, Politically Incorrect, Hollywood Squares, Late Night with Conan OBrien, and The Tonight Show with Jay Leno. Her stand-up experience also includes opening for Jerry Seinfeld and Frank Sinatra. Sinatra praised Leifer as "one funny broad!" and "I wish my mother had been that funny – I wouldnt have had to work so hard."
In 1988, she had her own special on Cinemax titled Carol Doesnt Leifer Anymore, which was produced by David Letterman. This was shortly followed by the specials Carol Leifer Comedy Cruise (1989) and Really Big Shoo! (1990). She wrote and starred in the 1992 Showtime (TV network) Showtime TV film Gaudy, Bawdy &amp; Blue, a mockumentary about fictional aged comedienne Rusty Berman (played by Leifer), told through interviews and flashbacks; the film had a similar concept to the film Mr. Saturday Night, which had come out several months earlier.

Lefier was a writer on Saturday Night Live during the 1985/1986 season. She has also been involved in television shows including Seinfeld, Its Like, You Know... and The Larry Sanders Show. She has written for the Academy Awards for most of the 21st century. 

Her hosting duties have included episodes of A&amp;E Network A&amp;Es Carolines Comedy Hour (1989-1993), Talk Soup and Later (talk show) Later.

Leifer starred in, created and executive-produced the 1997 WB sitcom Alright Already (TV series) Alright Already, called one of the "10 Best New Shows of the New Season" by the Los Angeles Times and The Washington Post. Despite good reviews, the show only ran one season. With Mitchell Hurwitz, Leifer created the short-lived The Ellen Show (2001). She was a writer and co-executive producer on the 2007-13 CBS sitcom Rules of Engagement (TV series) Rules of Engagement. 

On September 14, 2007, Leifer won an auction for the handwritten notes used by Michael Vick during his apology for his role in dogfighting.
Leifer appeared as a contestant on the third season of The Apprentice (U.S. season 9) Celebrity Apprentice.
She was the first to be eliminated, on the premiere episode, which aired on March 14, 2010.
===Seinfeld===
Leifer joined the Seinfeld writing staff during its fifth season (1993–94), and wrote six episodes for the show between then and its seventh season (1995–96). She has been dubbed "the real Elaine", as the series character, Elaine Benes, was partially based on her.
She won four Emmy Awards for her work on the series.
Her episodes, listed chronologically, are:

;Season five
*"The Lip Reader"
*"The Hamptons (Seinfeld episode) The Hamptons" (co-written with Peter Mehlman)

;Season six
*"The Secretary" (co-written with Marjorie Gross)
*"The Beard"
*"The Understudy (Seinfeld) The Understudy" (co-written with Marjorie Gross)

;Season seven
*"The Rye"

===Other work===
Her first book of humorous essays, entitled When You Lie About Your Age, The Terrorists Win,≠ was released on March 10, 2009.
In it, she discusses the moment she discovered she might be gay and how her life changed for the better.
==Personal life==
From 1981 to 1987, Leifer was married to comic Ritch Shydner, whose gentile status troubled Leifers father.
