Carol Creighton Burnett (born April 26, 1933) is an American actress, comedian, singer and writer, whose career spans seven decades of television. She is best known for her groundbreaking television variety show, The Carol Burnett Show, originally aired on CBS. It was the first of its kind to be hosted by a woman.
She has achieved success on stage, television and film in varying genres including dramatic and comedy roles. She has also appeared on various talk shows and as a panelist on game shows.

Born in San Antonio, Texas, Burnett moved with her grandmother to Hollywood, where she attended Hollywood High School and eventually studied theater and musical comedy at University of California, Los Angeles UCLA. Later she performed in nightclubs in New York City and had a breakout success on Broadway in 1959 in Once Upon a Mattress, for which she received a Tony Award nomination. She soon made her television debut, regularly appearing on The Garry Moore Show for the next three years, and won her first Emmy Award in 1962. Burnett had her television special debut in 1963 when she starred as Calamity Jane in the Dallas State Fair Musicals production of Calamity Jane on CBS.
Burnett moved to Los Angeles, California, and began an 11-year run as star of The Carol Burnett Show on CBS television from 1967 to 1978. With its vaudeville roots, The Carol Burnett Show was a variety show that combined sketch comedy comedy sketches with song and dance. The comedy sketches included parody film parodies and character pieces. Burnett created many memorable characters during the shows run, and both she and the show won numerous Emmy Award Emmy and Golden Globe Awards.

During and after her variety show, Burnett appeared in many television and film projects. Her film roles include Pete n Tillie (1972),  The Front Page (1974 film) The Front Page (1974), The Four Seasons (1981 film) The Four Seasons (1981), Annie (1982 film) Annie (1982), Noises Off (film) Noises Off (1992), and Horton Hears a Who! (film) Horton Hears a Who! (2008). On television, she has appeared in other sketch shows; in dramatic roles in 6 Rms Riv Vu (1974) and Friendly Fire (1979 film) Friendly Fire (1979); in various well-regarded guest roles, such as in Mad About You, for which she won an Emmy Award; and in specials with Julie Andrews, Dolly Parton, Beverly Sills, and others. She returned to the Broadway stage in 1995 in Moon Over Buffalo, for which she was again nominated for a Tony Award.

Burnett has written and narrated several memoirs, earning Grammy Award Grammy nominations for almost all of them, and a win for In Such Good Company In Such Good Company: Eleven Years Of Laughter, Mayhem, And Fun In The Sandbox.
In 2005, she was recognized as "one of Americas most cherished entertainers" and awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom "for enhancing the lives of millions of Americans and for her extraordinary contributions to American entertainment."
==Early life==
File:Carol christine burnett person to person 1961.JPG thumb Carol and sister Chrissie on Person to Person, 1961
Burnett was born in San Antonio, Texas, on April 26, 1933,{{sfn Newcomb 2004 page=364}}{{sfn Leszczak 2015  page=40}}
the daughter of Ina Louise (née Creighton), a publicity writer for movie studios, and Joseph Thomas Burnett, a movie theater manager.
Both of her parents were alcoholics, and at a young age, she was left with her grandmother, Mabel Eudora White. Her parents divorced in the late 1930s, and she and her grandmother moved to an apartment near her mother’s in an impoverished area of Hollywood, California. There they stayed in a boarding house with Burnetts younger half-sister Chrissie.
When Burnett was in second grade, she briefly invented an imaginary friend imaginary twin sister named Karen, with Shirley Temple-like dimples. She later recalled that, motivated to further the pretense, she "fooled the other boarders in the rooming house where we lived by frantically switching clothes and dashing in and out of the house by the fire escape and the front door. Then I became exhausted and Karen mysteriously vanished."{{sfn Downs 1971 pages=93–97}} Burnetts first experiences with singing occurred with her family. Her grandmother was a trained musician who could play the piano (although they didnt have one at the time), and her mother played a ukulele, so they would sometimes sing popular songs in harmony together around the kitchen table.
Her grandmother would frequently take Burnett and her sister to the movies - as well as take a few rolls of toilet paper home from the theater.
Years later, the movies she saw in her youth would be an influence on the sketch content in The Carol Burnett Show.
File:Hollywood Pacific Theater 2010.JPG thumb Hollywood Pacific Theatre in 2010, site of Burnetts star
For a while, she worked as an usherette at the Warner Brothers Theater (now the Hollywood Pacific Theatre). When the cinema screened Alfred Hitchcocks Strangers on a Train (film) Strangers on a Train (1951), having already seen the film and loving it, she advised two patrons arriving during the last five minutes of a showing to wait until the beginning of the next showing to avoid spoiling the ending for them, but the couple insisted on being seated. The manager observed Burnett not letting the couple in, then callously fired her, stripping the epaulettes from her uniform on the spot.
Years later in the 1970s after achieving TV stardom, when the Hollywood Chamber of commerce offered her a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, they asked her where she wanted it. She replied "Right in front of where the old Warner Brothers Theater was, at Hollywood and Wilcox", which is where it was placed,
{{sfn Burnett 1986 pages=194–195}} at 6439 Hollywood Blvd.
File:Hollywood High School, Hollywood, California (21597930841).jpg thumb Hollywood High School, with mural including alumna Burnett at center
After graduating from Hollywood High School in 1951, she received an anonymous envelope containing $50 for one years tuition at University of California, Los Angeles UCLA, where she initially planned on studying journalism.
During her first year of college, she switched her focus to theatre arts and English, with the goal of becoming a playwright. She found she had to take an acting course to enter the playwright program; "I wasnt really ready to do the acting thing, but I had no choice."
She followed a sudden impulse in her first performance; "Dont ask me why, but when we were in front of the audience, I suddenly decided I was going to stretch out all my words and my first line came out Im baaaaaaaack!"
