John Carroll OConnor (August 2, 1924 – June 21, 2001) was an American actor, producer, and director whose television career spanned four decades. A lifelong member of the Actors Studio,
OConnor first attracted attention as Major General Colt in the 1970 film Kellys Heroes. The following year, he found fame as the bigoted working man Archie Bunker, the main character in the 1970s Columbia Broadcasting System CBS television sitcoms All in the Family (1971–1979) and Archie Bunkers Place (1979–1983). OConnor later starred in the NBC/CBS television crime drama In the Heat of the Night (TV series) In the Heat of the Night from 1988 to 1995, where he played the role of southern Police Chief William (Bill) Gillespie. At the end of his career in the late 1990s, he played the father of Jamie Buchman (Helen Hunt) on Mad About You.

In 1996, OConnor was ranked number 38 on TV Guide{{}}s 50 Greatest TV Stars of All Time.
==Early life==
Carroll OConnor, an Irish American, was the eldest of three sons. He was born on August 2, 1924, in Manhattan,
New York City, to Edward Joseph OConnor,
a lawyer, and his wife, Elise Patricia OConnor. Both of his brothers became doctors: Hugh, who died in a motorcycle accident in 1961, and Robert, a psychiatrist in New York City.
OConnor spent much of his youth in Elmhurst, Queens Elmhurst and Forest Hills, New York Forest Hills, Queens, the same borough in which his character Archie Bunker would later live.
In 1941, Carroll OConnor enrolled at Wake Forest University in North Carolina, but dropped out when the United States entered World War II. During the war, he was rejected by the United States Navy and enrolled in the United States Merchant Marine Academy for a short time. After leaving that institution, he became a merchant seaman and served in the United States Merchant Marine during World War II.
After the war, OConnor attended the University of Montana-Missoula, where he met Nancy Fields, who later became his wife. He also worked at the Montana Kaimin#Controversy Montana Kaimin student newspaper as an editor. At the University of Montana, he joined Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity.
OConnor did not take any drama courses as an undergraduate at the University of Montana. He later left that university to help his younger brother Hugh get into medical school in Ireland, where Carroll completed his studies at the University College Dublin and began his acting career.
After OConnors fiancée, Nancy Fields, graduated from the University of Montana in 1951 with degrees in drama and English, she sailed to Ireland to meet Carroll, who was visiting his brother, Hugh.
The couple married in Dublin on July 28, 1951.
In 1956, OConnor returned to Missoula to earn a masters degree in speech.
OConnor said on The Dick Cavett Show, in December 1971, that the level of education that he achieved was a masters degree from the University of Montana and that he had completed a bachelors degree at the University of Dublin.

==Prolific character actor==
After acting in theatrical productions in Dublin and New York during the 1950s, OConnors breakthrough came when he was cast by director Burgess Meredith (assisted by John Astin) in a featured role in the Broadway adaptation of James Joyces novel Ulysses (novel) Ulysses. OConnor and Meredith remained close, lifelong friends.
OConnor made his television acting debut as a character actor on two episodes of Sunday Showcase. These two parts led to other roles on such television series as The Americans (1961 TV series) The Americans, The Eleventh Hour (1962 TV series) The Eleventh Hour, Gunsmoke, Bonanza, The Fugitive (TV series) The Fugitive, The Wild Wild West, Armstrong Circle Theatre, Death Valley Days, The Outer Limits (1963 TV series) The Outer Limits, The Great Adventure (U.S. TV series) The Great Adventure, The Man from U.N.C.L.E., Dr. Kildare, I Spy (1965 TV series) I Spy, That Girl, Premiere and Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea, among many others. OConnor starred as an Eastern European villain in the first season of Mission Impossible, season one, episode 18 "The Trial". Late in his career, he appeared on several episodes of Mad About You as the father of Helen Hunts character.

===Considered roles===
He was among the actors considered for the roles of the Skipper on Gilligans Island and Dr. Smith in the TV show Lost in Space, and was the visual template in the creation of Batman foe Rupert Thorne, a character who debuted at the height of All in the Familys success in Detective Comics No. 469 (published May 1976 by DC Comics).

==Television roles==

===All in the Family===
File:All in the family october 27 1973.jpg thumb Publicity photo of OConnor and Jean Stapleton in All in the Family, 1973
OConnor was living in Italy in 1968 when producer Norman Lear first asked him to come to New York to star in a pilot he was creating for ABC called Justice For All (TV pilot) Justice For All, with OConnor playing Archie Justice, a lovable yet controversial bigot. After three pilots done between 1968 and 1970, a network change to CBS, and the last name of the character changed to Bunker, the new sitcom was renamed All in the Family. The show was based on the BBCs Till Death Us Do Part (British TV series) Till Death Us Do Part, with Bunker based on Alf Garnett, albeit somewhat less abrasive than the original. OConnors Queens background and New York accent is said to have influenced Lear to set the show in Queens.
Wanting a well-known actor to play the role, Lear had approached Jackie Gleason and Mickey Rooney to play Archie; both declined. OConnor accepted, not expecting the show to be a success and believing he would be able to move back to Europe. In her book Archie &amp; Edith, Mike &amp; Gloria: the Tumultuous History of All in the Family, Donna McCrohan noted that OConnor requested that Lear provide him with a return airplane ticket to Rome as a condition of his accepting the role, so he could return to Italy when the show failed. Instead, the show became the highest-rated television show on American television for five consecutive seasons until the 1976–77 season (the sixth season).

OConnors own politics were liberal. He understood the Bunker character and played him not only with bombast and humor, but also with touches of vulnerability. The writing on the show was consistently left of center, but OConnor often deftly skewered the liberal pieties of the day. Although Bunker was famous for his malapropisms of the English language, OConnor was highly educated and cultured and was an English professor{{citation needed date=March 2017}} before he turned to acting.

The show also starred a Broadway theatre Broadway actress, also from New York City, Jean Stapleton, in the role of Bunkers long-suffering wife, Edith Bunker, whom Lear remembered from seeing in the play and film Damn Yankees. The producer sent the show over to ABC twice, but it did not get picked up. They then approached CBS with more success, and accordingly, All in the Family was retooled and debuted early in 1971. The show also starred unknown character actors, such as Rob Reiner as Archies liberal son-in-law, Michael "Meathead" Stivic, and Sally Struthers as Archie and Ediths only child and Mikes wife, Gloria. The cast had a unique on- and off-camera chemistry, especially Reiner, who became OConnors best friend and favorite actor.

CBS was unsure whether the controversial subject matter of All in the Family would fit well into a sitcom. Race (classification of human beings) Racial issues, ethnicities, religions, class, education, womens equality, gun control, politics, inflation, the Vietnam war, energy crisis, Watergate and other timely topics of the 1970s were addressed. Like its British predecessor Till Death Us Do Part, the show lent dramatic social substance to the traditional sitcom format. Archie Bunkers popularity made OConnor a top-billing star of the 1970s. OConnor was afraid of being typecast (acting) typecast for playing the role, but at the same time, he was protective of not just his character, but of the entire show, too.{{citation needed date=December 2017}}

A contract dispute between OConnor and Lear marred the beginning of the shows fifth season. Eventually, OConnor got a raise and appeared in the series until it ended. For his work as Archie Bunker, he was nominated for eight Emmy Awards as Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series; he won the award four times (1972, 1977, 1978 and 1979).

At the end of the eighth season in 1978, Reiner and Struthers left the series to pursue other projects, but OConnor and Stapleton still had one year left on their contracts.

Rob Reiner said in a 2014 interview about his on- and off-screen chemistry with OConnor, "We did over 200 shows in front of a live audience. So I learned a lot about what audiences like, what they dont like, how stories are structured. I would spend a lot of time in the writing room and I actually wrote some scripts. And from Carroll OConnor I learned a lot about how you perform and how important the script and story are for the actors. So the actor doesnt have to push things. You can let the story and the dialogue support you if its good. I had great people around me and I took from all the people who were around." He also stated, when he compared Carroll OConnors character to his acting mentors real-life persona: "Carroll OConnor brought his humanity to the character even though he had these abhorrent views. Hes still a feeling, human being. He loved his wife even though he acted the way he did, and he loved his daughter. Those things come out. I dont think anybodys all good or all bad."
===Archie Bunkers Place===
{{main Archie Bunkers Place}}
When All in the Family ended after nine seasons, Archie Bunkers Place continued in its place and ran for four more years. Longtime friend and original series star Jean Stapleton kept her role as Edith Bunker, but was limited to about a half dozen guest appearances in season one. In the second-season premiere, her character died of a stroke, leaving Archie to cope with the loss. The show was cancelled in 1983. OConnor was angered{{citation needed date=February 2013}} about the shows cancellation, maintaining that the show ended with an inappropriate finale. He vowed never to work in any type of show with CBS again,{{citation needed date=February 2013}} although he starred in In the Heat of the Night, which aired on CBS in that shows last three seasons.

===In the Heat of the Night===
{{main In the Heat of the Night (TV series)}}
While coping with his sons drug problem, OConnor starred as Sparta, Mississippi, Police Chief Bill Gillespie, a tough veteran cop on In the Heat of the Night. Based on the In the Heat of the Night (film) 1967 movie of the same name, the series debuted on NBC in March 1988 and performed well. He cast his son Hugh OConnor as Officer Lonnie Jamison. The headquarters of the Sparta Police Department was actually the library in Covington, Georgia.

Much like OConnor himself, Gillespie was racially progressive and politically liberal, but the character of Bill Gillespie was also a smart and tough police officer who was not afraid to use his gun when the occasion called for it.

In 1989, while working on the set, OConnor was hospitalized and had to undergo open heart surgery, which caused him to miss four episodes at the end of the second season (actor Joe Don Baker took his place in those episodes as an acting police chief.) OConnor would later serve as one of the executive producers for the series, starting with the third season. The series was transferred from NBC to CBS in 1992 and cancelled two years later after its seventh season. OConnor reprised his role the following year for four two-hour In the Heat of the Night television films to critical acclaim.{{Citation needed date=November 2010}}

While on the series, OConnor recorded "Bring a Torch, Jeanette Isabella" for the 1991 In the Heat of the Night Christmas CD Christmas Times A Comin. He was joined by Grand Ole Opry star mandolinist Jesse McReynolds, Nashville accordionist Abe Manuel, Jr., and Nashville fiddlers Buddy Spicher and Randall Franks. CD Producer and series co-star Randall Franks created the arrangement which was co-produced by series co-star Alan Autry. He joined other members of the cast for a recording of "Jingle Bells" with vocals by Country Music Hall of Fame members Little Jimmy Dickens, Kitty Wells, Pee Wee King, the Marksmen Quartet, Bobby Wright, Johnnie Wright and Ken Holloway.

==Career honors==
* Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Television Series Musical or Comedy, 1972, All in the Family
* Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series, 1971, 1976, 1977, and 1978, All in the Family
* Peabody Award George Foster Peabody Broadcasting Award, 1980, for Archie Alone episode, Archie Bunkers Place
* Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series, 1989, In the Heat of the Night
* Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Television Series Drama, 1989, In the Heat of the Night
* Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Television Series Drama nomination 1990, In the Heat of the Night
* Television Academy Hall of Fame, inducted 1990 for contributions to the television industry
* NAACP Image Award, 1992, In the Heat of the Night
Best Dramatic Series
* NAACP Image Award, 1993, In the Heat of the Night
Best Dramatic Series

===Other honors===
In 1973, his fraternity conferred its highest honor, the Sigma Phi Epsilon Citation, on him.
