Charles Quinton Murphy (July 12, 1959 – April 12, 2017) was an American actor, comedian, and writer. Murphy was best known as a writer and cast member of the Comedy Central sketch-comedy series Chappelles Show. He was the older brother of comedian Eddie Murphy and was the older half-brother of Vernon Lynch Jr.

==Early life==

Murphy was born on July 12, 1959, in the New York City borough of Brooklyn.
His mother, Lillian, was a telephone operator, and his father, Charles Edward Murphy, was a transit police officer and an amateur actor and comedian.

As an Adolescence adolescent, Murphy spent 10 months in Prison#United States jail.
In 1978, on the day he was released from jail,
he enlisted in the United States Navy and served for six years as a Machinists mate Boiler Technician.
In 1983, shortly before being discharged from the Navy, Murphy witnessed a mushroom cloud over Beirut. He later learned that it was the aftermath of the 1983 Beirut barracks bombings Beirut barracks bombing in which 307 people were killed.
==Career==
Murphy had minor roles in several films in the late 1980s and early 1990s, and worked behind the scenes with the hip hop group K-9 Posse, a duo composed of his half-brother Vernon Lynch Jr. and Wardell Mahone. On their 1988 self-titled debut, Murphy was credited as the albums executive producer as well as songwriter on the songs "Somebodys Brother" and "Say Who Say What".
He also made an appearance in the video for the duos first single "This Beat Is Military".
Murphys first major role in a motion picture was in the 1993 film CB4, where he portrayed the antagonist, Gusto.

Murphy achieved fame as a recurring performer on Chappelles Show, particularly in the Chappelles Show#Notable sketches Charlie Murphys True Hollywood Stories sketch comedy sketches. In these, Murphy recounts his misadventures as part of his brother Eddies entourage, including encounters with various celebrity celebrities such as Rick James and Prince (musician) Prince.
After Chappelles Show host Dave Chappelle left the show, Murphy and Donnell Rawlings hosted the "lost episodes" compiled from sketches produced before Chappelles departure.

In 2005, he appeared in Kings Ransom (film) Kings Ransom (alongside Anthony Anderson and Jay Mohr). In the film, Murphy portrayed "Herb", a gay ex-con who is hired by King (Anderson) to kidnap him in a fake kidnapping.
Murphy has done voiceovers for Budweiser (Anheuser-Busch) Budweiser radio commercials, provided the voice for Iraq War veteran/criminal Ed Wuncler III and Gin Rummy Ed Wuncler III on Cartoon Networks Adult Swim series The Boondocks (TV series) The Boondocks, and the voice for a pimp named Jizzy-B in Rockstar Games Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas video game. Murphy provided the voice for Spock on the G4 (U.S. TV channel) G4TVs Star Trek 2.0 shorts, and the dog in his younger brother Eddies 2007 film, Norbit.
On March 20, 2009, his own sketch comedy series Charlie Murphys Crash Comedy began on Crackle (company) Crackle.
A stand-up special, Charlie Murphy: I Will Not Apologize premiered on Comedy Central in late February 2010.
Murphy also made special appearances in 1000 Ways to Die and the TBS sitcom Are We There Yet? (TV series) Are We There Yet? as Frank Kingston. In 2014–15, Murphy played Vic on the Adult Swim live action show Black Jesus (TV series) Black Jesus.
==Personal life==
Murphy was a resident of Tewksbury Township, New Jersey.
He was married to Tisha Taylor Murphy from 1997 until her death from cervical cancer in December 2009.
The couple had two children together, and Murphy had another child from a previous relationship.
He was a karate practitioner.
==Death==
Murphy died from leukemia on April 12, 2017, at the age of 57.
==Filmography==
{{refimprove section date=April 2017}}

===Films===
{  class="wikitable sortable"
 -
! Year
! Title
! Role
! class="unsortable"   Notes
 -
  1989
  Harlem Nights
  Jimmy The Muffin Man
-
  1990
  Mo Better Blues
  Eggy
