Christopher Todd Titus (born October 1, 1964) is an American comedian and acting actor. He grew up in Newark, California.  Titus came to network audiences with the eponymous Fox Broadcasting Company FOX show Titus (TV series) Titus,
of which he was the star, executive producer and co-creator.  He is also a stand-up comedy stand-up comedian whose act revolves around his dysfunctional family and shocking life experiences.

==Love is Evol==

Love is Evol deals with his divorce from Erin (renamed "Kate" in the special for legal reasons) whom he stated was turned into "a demon slithering from the fiery depths of Satans anus" during the divorce proceedings, and the toll that abusive relationships take on people, among other things. In it, he talks about how his marriage to Erin fell apart, the ensuing divorce, his analysis of why people stay in bad relationships, his crisis of faith because of the divorce, meeting his new girlfriends family, and dating again for the first time in two decades. It was recorded in October 2008 for Comedy Central and aired on February 14, 2009.
==Neverlution==

Titus fourth stand up act is called Neverlution.
He debuted it at the Montreal Comedy festival in 2010 to standing ovations. In it, Titus talks about bringing the country back to its former glory, the new generation, and politics. Comedy Central Records released a double CD of Neverlution on June 28, 2011, and the special aired on Comedy Central on July 3, 2011.
The 105-minute Neverlution DVD was available for pre-order on August 3, 2011 and shipped on August 15, 2011.{{Citation needed date=April 2012}} In a change from his earlier deals with distribution companies Titus got the rights to his special and will only distribute it through his website christophertitus.com. Titus believes that the web will make it so that artists can make the most with their art and support their fans better.
==The Voice in My Head==

Titus fifth stand up act is called The Voice in My Head. It was originally called Scarred for Life but was changed in November 2012 to Epic Fail until it was changed again to The Voice in My Head in January 2013. This special deals with the different levels of failure and success Titus has encountered throughout his lifetime, including his first job as a low-rent Darth Vader lookalike and up to how he got his TV show cancelled. It was filmed on January 26, 2013 at the Tower Theatre (Fresno, California) Fresno Tower Theatre and was released for sale on his website on April 1, 2013, with 10% of the profit going towards The Insight Youth Project for homeless teens. Titus stated on Facebook that the reason The Voice in My Head will only be available through his website is because he was tired of the way Comedy Central would shorten his act from an hour and 40 minutes to 40 minutes for television airing.
On June 5, 2013 Titus revealed on his podcast that Comedy Central has paid for the rights to air The Voice in My Head, he also stated that the terms of this deal would mean that he would have to quit offering the special through his website, after June 9, 2013.
The Voice in My Head aired on October 5, 2013 on Comedy Central.

==Angry Pursuit of Happiness==

Titus sixth act is called Angry Pursuit of Happiness.
His special Angry Pursuit of Happiness was filmed on September 27, 2014 in Santa Barbara, CA,
and was put on sale on his website on December 5, 2014.
==Podcast==
Since January 28, 2011, he has been airing a podcast from "The Combustion Lounge". His sidekicks on the show are his wife, Bombshell Rae (Rachel Bradley), and Stuntman Tommy, an old friend of Titus, who also did stunt work on the TV show Titus (TV Series) Titus. The show airs once a week and, after some early sound problems, has become consistent. Within the first four months it broke the top ten podcasts on iTunes.  The show usually starts with a prerecorded monologue by Titus in form of a comedic rant called "The Armageddon Update", which serves as an introduction into the topic of the day. The official motto of the show is "Never unbiased, always unbalanced", topics usually include news at the time of airing like the 2011 end times prediction predicted rapture of May 21, 2011, plus personal topics. At the end of the October 4, 2012 podcast, it was announced that Stuntman Tommy would no longer be part of the podcast.
Since then, "Nerdpunk" Jeff Fox, who also works on at least one podcast of the Adam Carolla Network, has joined most of the recent shows.  In January 2014, Fox announced his retirement from the podcast,
and that Willie "Jello" Johnson, Titus half brother, would take over as the third voice on the show.
It was later revealed that Willie "Jello" Johnson was a character created by Christopher Titus and not a real person.

==Comments regarding Sarah Palin==
In an appearance on The Adam Carolla Show (podcast) The Adam Carolla Show, on June 7, 2011, Titus sparked outrage by saying that if Sarah Palin were elected president, he would "hang out on the grassy knoll all the time, just loaded and ready."  He later apologized on Facebook to Palins family, asking people to "stop the death threats."  However, in his apology, he managed to take a few more shots at Palin, opining that "America has set a low bar when accepting a possible leader."
==Personal life==
Titus married his first wife Erin Carden on April 17, 1991.
==Discography==
* Norman Rockwell is Bleeding (2004) Comedy Central Records
* The Fifth Annual End of The World Tour (2007) Comedy Central Records
* Love Is Evol (2009) Comedy Central Records
* Neverlution (2011) Comedy Central Records
* Voice in My Head (2013) DVD Exclusive
* Angry Pursuit of Happiness (2015)
* Born With a Defect (2016)
