Christopher Crosby Farley (February 15, 1964 – December 18, 1997) was an American actor and comedian. Farley was known for his loud, energetic comedic style, and was a member of Chicagos The Second City Second City Theatre
and later a Saturday Night Live cast cast member of the NBC sketch comedy show Saturday Night Live between 1990 and 1995.
He then went on to pursue a film career, starring in films such as Tommy Boy, Black Sheep (1996 film) Black Sheep and Beverly Hills Ninja. Farley died of a drug overdose  at the age of 33

==Early life==
Farley was born on February 15, 1964, in Madison, Wisconsin. His father, Thomas John Farley Sr. (1936–1999), owned an oil company, and his mother, Mary Anne (née Crosby), was a homemaker.
He had four siblings: Tom Jr., Kevin Farley Kevin, John Farley (actor) John, and Barbara. His cousin, Jim Farley (businessman) Jim, was Executive Vice President and President, Global Markets at Ford Motor Company Ford Motor Company Europe.
Farleys family is Roman Catholic and of Irish and Scottish descent. Farley attended Catholic schools in his hometown, including Edgewood High School of the Sacred Heart. According to Joel Murray, a fellow Second City cast member, Farley would "always make it to Mass."
Many of his summers were spent as a camper and counselor at Red Arrow Camp, near Minocqua, Wisconsin. He graduated from Marquette University in 1986, with a concentration in Communication studies communications and theater.
At Marquette, he played rugby and discovered a love of comedy.
After college, he worked with his father at the Scotch Oil Company in Madison.
He got his start in professional comedy at the Ark Improv Theatre in Madison, and at the IO Theater Improv Olympic theater in Chicago. He then performed at Chicagos The Second City Second City Theatre, initially as part of Second Citys touring group. He was eventually promoted to their Mainstage in 1989, and was a cast member of three revues: The Gods Must Be Lazy, It Was Thirty Years Ago Today, and Flag Smoking Permitted in Lobby Only or Censorama.
==Career==

===Saturday Night Live===
Along with Chris Rock, Farley was one of the new Saturday Night Live cast members announced in the spring of 1990.
On SNL, Farley frequently collaborated with fellow cast members Adam Sandler, Chris Rock, Rob Schneider, and David Spade, among others. This group came to be known as the "Bad Boys of SNL."
Popular characters performed by Farley included Matt Foley, an over-the-top motivational speaker who constantly reminded other characters that he "lived in a van, down by the river." The name of the character was drawn from an actual friend of Farley who, during a troubled period, lived in a van near a river. The real Matt Foley later became a Catholic priest and appeared in the 2015 documentary I am Chris Farley.

In early renditions of the character, Farley used other names, depending on whom he knew in the audience, until the real-life Foley went to the show and had his name used, at which point Farley felt the name best suited the character and refused to change it. Some of the mannerisms of the character were a combination of the positions Farley noticed his rugby teammates took on the pitch coupled with the angry and high-pitched, yet low volume/muffled voice his father used when he was angry.
Other famous Farley characters included Todd OConnor of Bill Swerskis Superfans, a group of stereotypical Chicagoans who constantly shouted Chicago Bears "da Bears!";
a Chippendales dancers Chippendales dancer, in a famous sketch that paired him with guest host Patrick Swayze;
one of the "Gap Girls", who hung out together at a local mall; a stereotypical lunch lady, to the theme of Lunchlady Land performed by Adam Sandler;
Bennett Brauer, a Weekend Update commentator who often divulged his personal and hygienic problems via air quotes; and himself on The Chris Farley Show, a talk show in which Farley quite often "interviewed" the guest, regularly getting very nervous.

Some of these characters were brought to SNL from his days at Second City. Farley also performed impersonations of Tom Arnold (actor) Tom Arnold (who gave Farleys eulogy at his private funeral), Andrew Giuliani, Jerry Garcia, Meat Loaf, Norman Schwarzkopf, Jr. Norman Schwarzkopf, Dom DeLuise, Roger Ebert, Carnie Wilson, Newt Gingrich, Mindy Cohn, Mama Cass, Hank Williams Jr., and Rush Limbaugh.
Off screen, Farley was well known for his pranks in the offices of Saturday Night Live. Sandler and Farley would make late-night prank phone calls from the SNL offices in Rockefeller Center, with Sandler speaking in an old womans voice and Farley farting into the phone and mooning cars from a limousine, and even once defecation defecating out a window. He was also known to frequently get naked and do various stunts for laughs. Chris Rock once claimed that he probably saw Farleys private parts more than Farleys girlfriend did.
Sandler told Conan OBrien on The Tonight Show with Conan OBrien The Tonight Show that NBC fired him and Farley from the show in 1995.
===Film career===
During his time on SNL, Farley appeared in the comedy films Waynes World (film) Waynes World,
Coneheads (film) Coneheads,
Airheads,
and uncredited in Billy Madison.
He also appeared in the Red Hot Chili Peppers music video for "Soul to Squeeze", which was a song featured on the Coneheads soundtrack.
After Farley and most of his fellow cast members were released from their contracts at Saturday Night Live following the Saturday Night Live (season 20) 1994–1995 season, Farley began focusing on his film career. His first two major films co starred his fellow SNL colleague and close friend David Spade. Together, the duo made the films Tommy Boy (film) Tommy Boy and Black Sheep (1996 film) Black Sheep. These were a success at the domestic box office, earning around $32 million each and gaining a large cult following on home video.
The two films established Farley as a relatively bankable star and he was given the title role of Beverly Hills Ninja, which finished in first place at the box office on its opening weekend.
Drug and alcohol abuse related problems interfered with Farleys film work at this time. Production of his final film, Almost Heroes, was held up several times so Farley could enter rehab. He was known among comedic contemporaries and friends to be sensitive about how his comedy was perceived ("fatty falls down, everybody goes home happy"), and was particularly hurt by harsh critical reactions to Tommy Boy, a film he enjoyed making.

He was particularly dissatisfied with Black Sheep, an attempt by the studio to recapture the chemistry on Tommy Boy, and was only 60 pages into the script when the project was green lit. As a result, he relapsed on the night of the premiere, which required further rehab before he could begin work on Beverly Hills Ninja.
After his death on December 18, 1997, his final completed films, Almost Heroes and Dirty Work (1998 film) Dirty Work, were released posthumously in the summer of 1998.

===Unfinished projects===
Farley was originally cast as the voice of Shrek (character) the title character in the movie Shrek, recording 85% (or 95% according to some sources) of the characters dialogue, but died just before recording was finished; the role was then played by Mike Myers. A story reel featuring a sample of Farleys recorded dialogue was released officially in 2015.
The original version of Shrek was more like Farley himself, according to his brother.
Farley was slated for another voice role in Dinosaur (film) Dinosaur as a young male brachiosaurus named Sorbus who, despite his gigantic stature, was frightened of heights. After his death, the character was rewritten as Baylene, an elderly female Brachiosaurus played by British actress Joan Plowright.
At the time of his death, Farley had been in talks to costar with Vince Vaughn in The Gelfin, and to star in a biographical film about comedian Roscoe Arbuckle Fatty Arbuckle.
Jim Carreys role in the 1996 film The Cable Guy was originally intended for Farley, but scheduling conflicts forced him to decline.
Farley was slated to appear in a third Ghostbusters (franchise) Ghostbusters film, which was at the time intended to be about a new trio of Ghostbusters taking on overpopulation in Hell.
