Daniel Louis Castellaneta ({{IPAc-en ˌ k æ s t əl ə ˈ n ɛ t ə}}; born October 29, 1957) is an American actor, voice actor, comedian and screenwriter, best known for his long-running role as Homer Simpson on the Fox Broadcasting Company animated sitcom The Simpsons. He also voices many other characters for the show like Grampa Simpson Abraham "Grampa" Simpson, Barney Gumble, Krusty the Clown, Sideshow Mel, Groundskeeper Willie, Mayor Quimby and Hans Moleman. Castellaneta also had roles in several other programs, including Futurama for Fox Broadcasting Company, Earthworm Jim for Kids WB, Sibs and Darkwing Duck for American Broadcasting Company ABC, Dynamo Duck The Adventures of Dynamo Duck for Fox Kids, Back to the Future: The Animated Series for CBS, Aladdin (TV series) Aladdin for Toon Disney and Hey Arnold! for Nicktoons.

In 1999, he appeared in the Christmas special Olive, the Other Reindeer, and won an Annie Award for his portrayal of the Postman. He released a comedy CD I Am Not Homer, and wrote and starred in a one-person show titled Where Did Vincent van Gogh?

==Early life==
Daniel Louis Castellaneta was born on October 29, 1957 at Roseland Community Hospital on Chicagos south side and was raised in Oak Park, Illinois.
He is of Italian descent, born to Elsie (née Lagorio; 1926–2008) and Louis Castellaneta (1915–2014).
Louis Castellaneta was an amateur actor who worked for a printing company.
Castellaneta became adept at impressions at a young age and his mother enrolled him in an acting class when he was sixteen years old. He would listen to his fathers comedy records and do impressions of the artists.
He was a "devotee" of the works of many performers, including Alan Arkin and Barbara Harris (actress) Barbara Harris and directors Mike Nichols and Elaine May.
He attended Oak Park and River Forest High School
and upon graduation, started attending Northern Illinois University (NIU) in the fall of 1975.
Castellaneta studied art education, with the goal of becoming an art teacher.
He became a student teacher and would entertain his students with his impressions.
Castellaneta was a regular participant in The Ron Petke and His Dead Uncle Show, a radio show at NIU. The show helped Castellaneta hone his skills as a voice-over actor. He recalled "We did parodies and sketches, we would double up on, so you learned to switch between voices. I got my feet wet doing voiceover. The show was just barely audible, but we didnt care. It was the fact that we got a chance to do it and write our own material."
He took a play-writing class and auditioned for an improvisational show. A classmate first thought Castellaneta would "fall on his face with improvisation" but soon "was churning out material faster than [they] could make it work."
==Career==
===Early career===
Castellaneta started acting after his graduation from Northern Illinois University in 1979. He decided that if his career went nowhere he would still have a chance to try something else.
He began taking improvisation classes, where he met his future wife Deb Lacusta. He started to work at The Second City, an improvisational theatre in Chicago, in 1983 and continued to work there until 1987.
During this period, he did voice-over work with his wife for various radio stations.
He auditioned for a role in The Tracey Ullman Show and his first meeting underwhelmed Tracey Ullman and the other producers. Ullman decided to fly to Chicago to watch Castellaneta perform. His performance that night was about a blind man who tries to become a comedian and Ullman later recalled that although there were flashier performances that night, Castellaneta made her cry. She was impressed and Castellaneta was hired.
===The Simpsons===
Castellaneta is most famous for his role as Homer Simpson on the longest running animated television show The Simpsons. The Tracey Ullman Show included a series of animated shorts about a dysfunctional family. Voices were needed for the shorts, so the producers decided to ask Castellaneta and fellow cast member Julie Kavner to voice Homer and Marge Simpson rather than hire more actors.
Homers voice began as a loose impression of Walter Matthau, but Castellaneta could not "get enough power behind that voice" and could not sustain his Matthau impression for the nine- to ten-hour long recording sessions.
He tried to find something easier, so he "dropped the voice down", and developed it into a more versatile and humorous voice during the second and third season of the half-hour show.
Castellanetas normal speaking voice has no similarity to Homers.
To perform Homers voice, Castellaneta lowers his chin to his chest,
and is said to "let his IQ go."
Castellaneta likes to stay in character during recording sessions,
and tries to visualize a scene in his mind so that he can give the proper voice to it.
Despite Homers fame, Castellaneta claims he is rarely recognized in public, "except, maybe, by a die-hard fan."
File:Simpsons voice actors.jpg thumb left Castellaneta with fellow Simpsons voice actors Nancy Cartwright, Yeardley Smith and Julie Kavner in 2009
Castellaneta also provides the voices for numerous other characters, including Grampa Simpson, Barney Gumble, Krusty the Clown, Groundskeeper Willie, Mayor Quimby, Hans Moleman, Sideshow Mel, The Itchy &amp; Scratchy Show Itchy, Kang and Kodos Kodos, the Squeaky Voiced Teen and Gil Gunderson. Krustys voice is based on Chicago televisions Bob Bell (actor) Bob Bell, who had a very raspy voice and portrayed WGN-TVs Bozo the Clown from 1960 to 1984.
Barneys trademark is a loud belch. During early recording sessions for the show, he recorded a new version of the belch for every episode but discovered that it was not easy for him to do it every time a script called for it. Castellaneta chose a recording of what he believed was his best belch and told the producers to make that the standard.
Groundskeeper Willies first appearance was in the The Simpsons (season 2) season two episode "Principal Charming". The character was written as an angry janitor and Castellaneta was assigned to perform the voice. He did not know what voice to use and Sam Simon, who was directing at the time, suggested he use an accent.

Castellaneta first tried using Hispanic voicing, which Simon felt was too clichéd. He then tried a "big dumb Sweden Swede", which was also rejected. For his third try, he used the voice of an angry Scotsman, which was deemed appropriate enough and was used in the episode.
The voice was based partially on Angus Crock, a kilt-wearing chef from the sketch comedy show Second City Television, who was portrayed by Dave Thomas (actor) Dave Thomas.
Mayor Quimby, who first appeared in "Bart Gets an F", is a parody of various members of the Kennedy family. The episode script did not call for Quimby to be a parody of them, and Castellaneta improvised the accent.
Sideshow Mels voice is Castellanetas impression of Kelsey Grammer, the voice of Sideshow Bob.
Gil is a spoof of actor Jack Lemmons portrayal of Shelley Levene in the 1992 Glengarry Glen Ross (film) film adaptation of the play Glengarry Glen Ross.
Show runner Mike Scully thought that Gil would be "a one-shot thing"
but "Dan Castellaneta was so funny at the read-through table read doing the character, we kept making up excuses in subsequent episodes to put him in."
The List of recurring The Simpsons characters#Blue Haired Lawyer Blue-Haired Lawyers voice, as well as his demeanor, is based on lawyer Roy Cohn.
Castellaneta has won several awards for voicing Homer, including four Primetime Emmy Awards for "Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance Outstanding Voice-Over Performance" in 1992 for "Lisas Pony", 1993 for "Mr. Plow",
2004 for voicing several characters in "Today I Am a Clown",
and 2009 for voicing Homer in "Father Knows Worst".
In 1993, Castellaneta was given a special Annie Award, "Outstanding Individual Achievement in the Field of Animation", for his work as Homer on The Simpsons.
In 2004, Castellaneta and Julie Kavner (the voice of Marge) won a Young Artist Award for "Most Popular Mom &amp; Dad in a TV Series".
Homer was placed second on TV Guide (magazine) TV Guide
s 2002 Top 50 Greatest Cartoon Characters,
and in 2000, Homer and the rest of the Simpson family were awarded a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame located at 7021 Hollywood Boulevard.
Until 1998, Castellaneta was paid $30,000 per episode.
