Daniel Hale "Dan" Rowan (July 22, 1922 – September 22, 1987) was an United States of America American comedian. He was featured in the television show Rowan &amp; Martins Laugh-In, wherein he played Double act straight man to Dick Martin (comedian) Dick Martin and won the 1969 Emmy for Outstanding Variety or Musical Series.

==Early life and career==
Rowan was born on July 22, 1922,
on a Traveling carnival carnival train near the small town of Beggs, Oklahoma, as Daniel Hale David.  He toured with his parents,
Oscar and Nellie David, who performed a singing and dancing act with the carnival. 

He was orphaned at the age of 11,
spent four years at the McClelland Home in Pueblo, Colorado, and then was taken in by a foster family at the age of 16 and enrolled in Central High School (Pueblo, Colorado) Central High School. After graduating from high school in 1940, he hitchhiked to Los Angeles, California, and found a job in the mailroom at Paramount Pictures, quickly ingratiating himself with studio head Buddy DeSylva. A year later he became Paramounts youngest staff writer.

===World War II===
During World War II, Rowan served as a fighter pilot in the 8th Fighter Squadron, 49th Fighter Group
United States Army Air Forces.
He flew a Curtiss P-40N Warhawk, AAF Ser. No. 42-104949, currently recorded under civilian reigstration N537BR,
from which he shot down two Japanese aircraft before he was downed in another P-40 and seriously wounded over New Guinea. His military decorations include the Distinguished Flying Cross (U.S.) Distinguished Flying Cross with Oak Leaf Cluster, the Air Medal, and the Purple Heart.{{cn date=April 2017}}

===Comedy team===
File:Rowanmartin.jpg right thumb 200px Dan Rowan and Dick Martin (comedian) Dick Martin as caricatured for NBC by Sam Berman
After his discharge, Rowan returned to California, where he teamed up with Dick Martin (comedian) Dick Martin and started a comedy nightclub act. The team had appeared on television before, but it was not until the critical success of a summer special in 1967 that they found fame on Laugh-In.
==Personal life==
In 1946, Rowan married the 1945 Miss America first-runner-up Phyllis J. Mathis.
They had three children: Thomas Patrick, Mary Ann, and Christie Esther.
He and Mathis were later divorced.
In 1963, Rowan married Australian model Adriana Van Ballegooyen.
They divorced
eight years later. In 1974, he married model and TV spokeswoman Joanna Young, to whom he remained married until his death.
==Later years and death==
Rowan retired in the early 1980s and spent the remainder of his years between his residence in Florida and his barge in the canals of France. In his forties, he was diagnosed with Diabetes mellitus type 1 type 1 diabetes, which led to his becoming insulin dependent. He died of lymphoma in 1987 in Englewood, Florida.
In 1986, a book of letters written between himself and author John D. MacDonald was published entitled A Friendship: The Letters of Dan Rowan and John D. MacDonald, 1967-1974.
Rowan was portrayed by Jonathan Whittaker in the 1995 HBO movie Sugartime (film) Sugartime.
