Dana Thomas Carvey (born June 2, 1955) is an American Stand-up comedy stand-up comedian and actor, who is most widely known for his work as a cast member on Saturday Night Live (1986–1993) and for starring as Garth Algar in the Waynes World (film) Waynes World films.

He is well known for his impersonations of George H. W. Bush  and Ross Perot on Saturday Night Live as well as portraying original SNL characters The Church Lady and Hans of Hans and Franz.

==Early life==
Carvey was born in Missoula, Montana, the second of two boys for Billie Dahl,
a schoolteacher, and Bud Carvey,
a high school business teacher.
Carvey is the brother of Brad Carvey, the engineer/designer of the Video Toaster. The character Garth Algar is loosely based on Brad. Carvey has English, German, Irish, Norwegian, and Swedish ancestry, and was raised Lutheran.
When he was three years old, his family moved to San Carlos, California,
in the San Francisco Bay Area. He received his first drum kit at an early age. He attended Tierra Linda Junior High in San Carlos, Carlmont High School in Belmont, California (where he was a member of the California Interscholastic Federation#Sections Central Coast Section champion cross country team),
College of San Mateo in San Mateo, California, and received his bachelors degree in broadcast communications from San Francisco State University.
==Career==

===Early career===
Carvey had a minor role in Halloween II (1981 film) Halloween II in 1981, and co-starred in One of the Boys (TV series) One of the Boys in 1982, a short-lived television sitcom that also starred Mickey Rooney, Nathan Lane, and Meg Ryan. In 1984, Carvey had a small role in Rob Reiners film This Is Spinal Tap, in which he played a mime artist mime, with fellow comedian Billy Crystal (who tells him "wikt:time is money Mime is money!"). He appeared in the music video for the Greg Kihn song "Lucky" in 1985. He also appeared in the short-lived film-based action television series Blue Thunder (TV series) Blue Thunder. His big break came in 1986, when he co-starred opposite Kirk Douglas and Burt Lancaster in Tough Guys. As a lifelong Douglas fan, Carvey threw in an affectionate impression of his mentor, while describing a hairy scene they did together on a moving train.
Carvey was a finalist for the hosting role on the Nickelodeon TV game show Double Dare (Nickelodeon game show) Double Dare. He ultimately withdrew his name from consideration after he was cast on Saturday Night Live. The job would go to Marc Summers.

===Saturday Night Live===
In 1986, Carvey became a household name when he joined the cast of NBCs Saturday Night Live. He, along with newcomers Phil Hartman, Kevin Nealon, Jan Hooks, and Victoria Jackson, helped to reverse the shows declining popularity and made SNL "must-see" TV once again. An important part of the shows revival was Carveys breakout character, the Church Lady, the uptight, smug, and pious host of Church Chat.
Carvey said he based the character on women he knew from church while growing up, who would keep track of other churchgoers attendance. He became so associated with the character that later cast members such as Chris Farley referred to Carvey simply as "The Lady".
Carveys other original characters included Garth Algar (from Waynes World), who was based on his brother;
Hans (from "Hans and Franz"); and the Grumpy Old Man (from Weekend Update appearances).  Throughout the election and presidency of George H. W. Bush, he was the designated impersonator of the president, making him the lead actor of the regular political sketches on SNL.

During the United States presidential election, 1992 1992 US presidential election campaign, Carvey also did an impression of independent candidate Ross Perot; in a prime-time special before the election, Carvey played both George H. W. Bush and Perot in a three-way debate with Bill Clinton, played by Phil Hartman. As Perot—recorded and timed to give the appearance of interacting with the live Bush and Clinton—Carvey eschewed the shows signature "Live from New York" opening line, telling Bush "Why dont you do it, live-boy?" Carvey left SNL in 1993.

In 1992, Carvey joined Mike Myers in Waynes World, the film. A sequel, Waynes World 2, was filmed and released in 1993.

Carveys SNL work won him an Emmy Award in 1993 for Outstanding Individual Performance in a Variety or Music Program. He has a total of six Emmy
nominations. Carvey has returned to host SNL four times, in 1994, 1996, 2000, and 2011.

===After SNL===
NBC executives hoped to get Carvey to take over the 12:30 am ET weeknight spot in the networks lineup in 1993 when David Letterman left his show, Late Night with David Letterman, for an 11:30 pm ET show on CBS. The 12:30 spot eventually went to Conan OBrien.

In 1994, Carvey starred in the film Clean Slate (1994 film) Clean Slate.  The following year, Carvey filmed his first HBO stand-up special Critics Choice.  The show featured Carvey doing many of his SNL impersonations, as well as making fun of the premium channels name, pronouncing it "hobo".

He had to turn down a role in Bad Boys (1995 film) Bad Boys because he felt overwhelmed as a new father.
