Daniel Sloss (born 11 September 1990) is a Scottish comedian, actor and writer, notable for having become established as a professional live and television performer whilst still in his teens.
He was the youngest comedian to perform a solo season in Londons West End aged 19 and signed a DVD deal with BBC WWs 2Entertain label aged 20. He has appeared on numerous US television programmes including multiple appearances on Conan (talk show) Conan
and The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson.
In May 2018 Netflix announced it had signed Daniel to a two-specials deal for his full-length shows "DARK" and "Jigsaw" (previously titled "So?") with both set to stream worldwide in the summer.
==Early life==
Sloss was born in Kingston upon Thames and moved with his family to Fife in Scotland at the age of four. He attended East Wemyss Primary School and secondary school at Waid Academy in Anstruther. He was offered a place at the University of Dundee to study history but having decided to take a gap year to see if he could make comedy work as his full-time career, he rejected the offer after the 2008 Edinburgh Fringe.

==Comedy career==
===Stand up===
When Sloss was sixteen, his mother Dr Lesley Sloss met comedian Frankie Boyle and mentioned her son, Boyle offered Sloss work experience by writing a small amount of material for him in two series of BBCs Mock the Week.
This was his first break and he credits Boyle for his initial success.
Sloss performed for the first time at The Laughing Horse in Edinburgh, August 2007, after completing a two-day stand-up comedy course under tutor Jay Sodogar. His first set was five minutes long.

His first Edinburgh Festival Fringe was in August 2008, where he shared a show with fellow comic Davey See.
Life in 2D ran for 10 days in the Espionage venue as part of the Free Fringe. That same Fringe, aged  17, Sloss became one of the youngest-ever finalists in the UKs premier So You Think Youre Funny? comedy competition, the final of which is hosted by the Gilded Balloon venue during the Edinburgh Fringe.{{Citation needed date=April 2014}} In 2009, he sold out his debut full length Edinburgh Festival Fringe season Daniel Sloss – Teenage Kicks and in October took this show to London to the Soho Theatre to become the youngest comedian to perform a solo season in the venue as well as in Londons West End.
In August 2010, Slosss second solo show Daniel Sloss: My Generation sold out the entire run at The Pleasance venue at Edinburgh Festival Fringe. The show later transferred to London for a season at the Soho Theatre in September before returning to London during the tour playing at the Bloomsbury Theatre in November. This show became his first ever headline live tour and went on to tour Scotland throughout the autumn of 2010.

On 6 March 2011, he performed his first set at the HMV Hammersmith Apollo Hammersmith Apollo alongside comedian Dara Ó Briain to support wildlife charity Our Disappearing Planet.
Also in March 2011, Sloss made a sell-out return to the Sydney Comedy Festival{{Citation needed date=January 2017}} and then embarked on a tour across South East Asia with fellow comic Craig Hill (comedian) Craig Hill.

In August 2011, Sloss premiered his new show Daniel Sloss - The Joker at the Edinburgh Fringe, becoming one of the biggest ticket sellers across the fringe selling out every seat to every show for his nearly 4 week run in the flagship new 400 seat Assembly Theatre venue, still aged just 20. This was followed by a Live Nation-produced 50 date national tour in the autumn.
In August 2012 he recorded a set for the BBCs Comedy Marathon Edinburgh Fringe showcase and in September was part of Channel 4s Comedy World Cup  panel show hosted by David Tennant, before travelling to LA to tape smash-hit stand-up improvised show Set List (TV series) Set List for Sky Atlantic as well as perform some live club sets at some of LAs most prestigious clubs including the Improv. That same month he also featured on comic book maestro Mark Millars final GFT Geekfest, performed on BBC Threes Russell Howards Good News and gave a TEDx talk, recorded in Ealing.  He then went on to perform an extensive UK tour of Daniel Sloss - The Show, with more than 50 dates and produced by Live Nation.

2013 began with sell-out tours of Norway and Sweden as well as performances at the Altitude Comedy Festival in the Austrian Alps alongside John Bishop (comedian) John Bishop and Eddie Izzard, from which Daniel was featured in ITV2s documentary about the event. He returned to Australia for seasons at the Sydney International Comedy Festival and Perth International Comedy Festival.

In August 2013 he launched his new show Daniel Sloss - Stand-Up at the Edinburgh fringe, again with an extended season at the Edinburgh International Conference Centre and again followed by a substantial autumn tour throughout the UK. He subsequently performed this show at 2014s Sydney International Comedy Festival and Perth International Comedy Festival.

In August 2014 his new show Daniel Sloss - Really...?! premiered at the Edinburgh fringe, again with an extended season (performing 2 shows a night on weekends) at the Edinburgh International Conference Centre, followed by a substantial European tour of 20 shows in 15 countries in the autumn as well as UK dates including 2 shows at Londons Royal Albert Hall, Elgar Room.  He again performed at the Altitude Comedy Festival, a week-long comedy and snowboarding event held in the Austrian Alps.

In 2015, Daniel wrote and subsequently performed his 7th show at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe “DARK”. Along with a number of fellow comedians, including Kai Humphries and Tom Stade, he wrote, co-produced and starred in 6-part internet sitcom M.U.F.F. “DARK” went on to tour for over 80 dates across 15 countries in Europe and throughout the UK.

In January, an extended hybrid version of “DARK” ran for a week at London’s Soho Theatre (rebranded “DARK REVOIR” as DARK had been performed at the Londons Royal Albert Hall, Elgar Room in December as part of the UK tour.
In February, Daniel made his 5th appearance on “Conan O’Brien”  and transferred the 90 minute version of his solo show (renamed “DARK” ) to New York for a week-long, off-Broadway run at the Soho Playhouse as well for 2 shows in Los Angeles at the Westside Comedy Theatre. The New York Times featured Daniel on the front page of its Arts section
"DARK" then travelled to Australia and New Zealand for several very successful seasons in Sydney (winning the 2016 Sydney Comedy Festival Best of the Fest Award [International]),
Perth, Auckland and made his debut at the Melbourne International Comedy Festival, adding an extra performance to his scheduled 4-week season. He was featured on a number of TV showcases including the MICF Oxfam Gala, NZ Comedy Fest’s BEST BITS gala and on Sydney Comedy Festival’s CRACKER NIGHT.

After a brief trip to the US in June for runs in San Francisco and Madison, Daniel returned to the UK where he appeared at both the Glastonbury and the Latitude Festivals before heading back to Montreal’s Just For Laughs Festival for TV tapings and to perform "DARK". He also made his 6th (record-breaking) appearance on Conan (talk show) Conan

His next solo show DANIEL SLOSS – “SO?”  premiered in August 2016 in Edinburgh at the EICC and exceeded previous audience figures at 11,500 and to press acclaim.
An extensive autumn tour of  “SO?” ran throughout UK and 18 European countries in the autumn of 2016 before transferring to London for a solo week-long season at Londons Soho Theatre.
In the first half of 2017 he made his 7th appearance on Conan (talk show) Conan (23 January 2017) and performed a second off-Broadway season at the Soho Playhouse with "Daniel Sloss — So?"  as well as playing a week of late night sets at the Comedy Cellar and Gotham comedy clubs, appearing alongside stand-up alumni including Kevin Hart. He then headed to Australia and New Zealand for what became 3 months of back-to-back sold out seasons and TV appearances, receiving rave reviews and culminating in "So?" being filmed before a packed house at Sydney’s Enmore Theatre.  That same year he also featured on Comedy Central’s Drunk History
re-telling the story of William Wallace (hilariously portrayed by Keith Allen (actor) Keith Allen), Dave Channel’s Dara O’Briain’s Go 8 Bit.
After the Edinburgh Fringe EICC Premiere season of his latest show “DANIEL SLOSS: NOW”, he embarked on an extensive live tour of this show with performances throughout the UK and across 24 European countries. He was also invited to perform a one off night of this show at the New York Comedy Festival
and finished off the tour with a week in London’s West End at the Soho Theatre.
His no-holds-barred performance on Comedy Central’s Roast Battle, pitted against comedian Desiree Birch, became the most watched episode of the show’s inaugural season.
In January 2018 he made his 8th appearance on Conan (talk show) Conan
and appeared on Comedy Central’s Comedy Roast.
He then went on to perform across America including seasons in Madison,
San Francisco,
Cleveland
and Denver.
He starred in the “Best of Edinburgh” line-up at San Francisco’s Sketchfest
and returned to New York for the second off-Broadway run of his award-winning show “DARK” at the Soho Playhouse.
In January 2018 Sloss made his 8th appearance on Conan (talk show) Conan,
opened for Dave Chappelle’s two shows in San Francisco as well as himself performing at the city’s Sketchfest Comedy Festival. He performed in Cleveland, Madison, Denver and returned to New York for a second off-Broadway season of "DARK", again at the Soho Playhouse.
In February 2018, Daniel taped "DARK" in Los Angeles at the Belasco Theater.
Part of a two-specials deal with Netflix, it was announced on 17 May that DARK along with sequel show So? (now retitled Jigsaw) is to stream worldwide on the platform in the summer of 2018.
August 2018 sees Daniel premiere his 10th solo show, Daniel Sloss: X during his 11th season at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe season.
The subsequent tour will again cover 25 European countries and ends with a new season in London’s West End.
===Television===
He was the first stand-up comedian to perform on Channel 4s Paul OGrady Show (2009) and was commissioned by the BBC in April 2010 for a broadcast sitcom pilot, The Adventures of Daniel, which transmitted on 23 August 2010.
