Daniel Michael DeVito Jr. (born November 17, 1944) is an American actor and filmmaker. He gained prominence for his portrayal of the taxi dispatcher Louie De Palma in the television series Taxi (TV series) Taxi (1978–1983), which won him a Golden Globe and an Emmy.

A major film star, he is known for his roles in Tin Men, Throw Momma from the Train, One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest (film) One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest, Ruthless People, Man on the Moon (film) Man on the Moon, Terms of Endearment, Romancing the Stone, Twins (1988 film) Twins, Batman Returns, Look Whos Talking Now, Big Fish, Other Peoples Money, Get Shorty (film) Get Shorty, Be Cool and L.A. Confidential (film) L.A. Confidential, and for his voiceover in such films as Space Jam, Hercules (1997 film) Hercules and The Lorax (film) The  Lorax.

DeVito and Michael Shamberg founded Jersey Films. Soon afterwards, Stacey Sher became an equal partner. The production company is known for films such as Pulp Fiction, Garden State (film) Garden State, and Freedom Writers. DeVito also owned Jersey Television, which produced the Comedy Central series Reno 911!. DeVito and wife Rhea Perlman starred together in his 1996 film Matilda (1996 film) Matilda, based on Roald Dahls childrens novel. DeVito was also one of the producers nominated for an Academy Award for Best Picture for Erin Brockovich (film) Erin Brockovich.

He stars as Frank Reynolds (Its Always Sunny in Philadelphia) Frank Reynolds on the FX (TV channel) FX and FXX sitcom Its Always Sunny in Philadelphia. He directed, produced and appeared in graphic, short, horror films for his Internet venture The Blood Factory.
DeVitos short stature is the result of multiple epiphyseal dysplasia multiple epiphyseal dysplasia (Fairbanks disease), a rare genetic disorder that affects bone growth in those afflicted.
==Early life==
DeVito was born in Neptune Township, New Jersey, the son of Daniel DeVito Sr., a small business owner, and Julia DeVito ({{nee}} Moccello).
He grew up in a family of five, with his parents and two older sisters.
He is of Italian descent; his family is originally from San Fele, Basilicata.
He was raised in Asbury Park, New Jersey.
DeVito was raised as a Catholic and attended Oratory Preparatory School, a boarding school in Summit, New Jersey, graduating in 1962. He went to the boarding school when he was 14 after he persuaded his father to send him there to keep him out of trouble.
