Danny Bhoy (born Danni Chaudhry on {{birth date 1975 01 16 df=y}}) is a Scottish comedian who has performed in the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Australia, Canada, Sweden and the United States.

== Early life ==

Bhoy was born in Moffat, Scotland,
as one of four children and attended Lockerbie Academy and Merchiston Castle School in Edinburgh. His father is of Indian people Indian descent and his mother is Scottish people Scottish.
His humour is observational, often involving his own personal experiences as an international comedian. While he does mention his Indian heritage, his shows centre on Scottish social patterns. Despite his stage name, Bhoy, he is not a Celtic F.C. fan (Celtic are nicknamed The Bhoys), his favourite team is in fact Newcastle United F.C. Newcastle United.
His stage name actually stems from his grandmas nickname for him, Danny Boy, but due to a performing dog already having that name registered with Equity (trade union) Equity, he added the H to Bhoy.
== Career ==

Bhoy began stand up in 1998 after going to see his first comedy show at the Edinburgh Fringe Edinburgh Festival. A year later, he won The Daily Telegraph Open Mic Award,
Britains biggest competition for comedy newcomers. In 2001, Danny took his first full-length solo show to the Edinburgh Festival, where, within a week, he had sold out his entire three-week run, and added extra shows to cope with the demand for tickets.
By the spring of 2003, Dannys comedy started to take a different direction. That year he also entered the Australian comedy market, with his first solo show at the invitation-only Melbourne Comedy Festival. This led to various Australian TV appearances on Rove Live, The Glass House (2001 TV series) The Glass House, and the Melbourne International Comedy Festival Gala. In November of that year, Danny was invited to perform on the Royal Variety Show.
In 2005, Danny was invited to take part in the Montreal Just for Laughs Comedy Festival, where the Montreal Gazette described him as "the stand out hit of the festival". In November, Danny was invited to take part in the inaugural Las Vegas Comedy Festival.  Bhoy toured Australia in 2007, ending his tour at the Sydney Opera House,
and 2009 with the last show at Her Majestys Theatre, Perth.
Bhoy appeared on the Late Show with David Letterman, broadcast on 5 March 2010, and the Comedy Networks "Saturday Night Stand-up", which was broadcast on 17 April 2010. He appeared on Comedy Central with his new routine, "Subject to Change: Danny Bhoy", which was broadcast on 22 May 2010, and appeared on Live at the Apollo (TV series) Live at the Apollo, broadcast in December 2010.

In early 2011, Danny began touring around Australia with his show Messenger (Please Do Not Shoot), selling out his shows at the Sydney Comedy Festival. He also sold out all his shows at the Melbourne Comedy Festival, and had to add two separate shows at a different venue to his other shows due to popular demand. These shows were also sold out.
Bhoys 2012 show, Dear Epson, was loosely centred upon a series of letters to well-known companies. He toured the show following a run at the Edinburgh Fringe.
==Stand-up DVDs==
* Live at the Sydney Opera House (15 August 2007)
* Live at the Athenaeum (5 August 2009)
* Subject to Change (8 November 2010) [performed live in Montreal, Quebec, Canada]
* Live at the Festival Theatre (26 November 2012)
