Dara Ó Briain ({{IPAc-en ˈ d ɑːr ə _ oʊ ˈ b r iː ə n ,_ ˈ d ær ə _ -}}; {{IPA-ga ˈd̪ˠaɾˠə oː ˈbʲɾʲiənʲ lang}}; born 4 February 1972)
is an Irish people Irish comedian and television presenter based in the United Kingdom and Ireland. He is noted for hosting topical panel shows such as Mock the Week, The Panel (Irish TV series) The Panel, and The Apprentice: Youre Fired!. His TV work also includes starring in and writing of television comedy and documentary series. Ó Briain has also been a newspaper columnist, with pieces published in national papers in both Britain and Ireland.

In 2009, the Irish Independent described Ó Briain as "Terry Wogans heir apparent as Britains favourite Irishman"
and in 2010, Ó Briain was voted the 16th greatest stand-up comic on Channel 4s 100 Greatest Stand-Ups.

==Early life==
Ó Briain was born in 1972 in Bray, County Wicklow Bray, County Wicklow,
and attended Coláiste Eoin secondary school, a Gaelcholáiste (Irish-speaking medium school) on Dublins southside. He attended University College, Dublin (UCD), where he studied mathematics, chemistry and theoretical physics. In 2008, he remarked: "I havent written it into my act, but it occasionally comes through. I could come on with a chalkboard and say: Now youre all going to pay attention.{{"}}
While a student at UCD, he was both the auditor of the Literary and Historical Society (University College Dublin) Literary and Historical Society (the universitys oldest debate debating society) and the co-founder and co-editor of The University Observer college newspaper. In 1994, he won the Irish Times National Debating Championship Irish Times National Debating Championship and The Irish Times/Gael Linn National Irish language debating championship; he is a fluent Irish language Irish speaker, and speaks to his father only in that language.
==After university==
After leaving university, Ó Briain began working at Raidió Teilifís Éireann RTÉ as a childrens TV presenter. At this time, he also began performing his first stand-up gigs on the Irish comedy circuit.
He admitted, "I did the trip from Dublin to County Donegal Donegal to play to six people; then I turned round and drove home again. I did about three or four years playing to a lot of bad rooms, but learning as I went. Its not bad when someone gives you £40 for standing up and telling jokes. I remember thinking: This is the life."
Ó Briain spent three years as a presenter on the bilingual (Irish and English) childrens programme Echo Island  but came to prominence as a team captain on the topical panel show Dont Feed The Gondolas (1998–2000) hosted by Seán Moncrieff. Ó Briain also hosted RTÉ family entertainment gameshow Its A Family Affair.
Ironically, Dara would successfully persuade Paul Merton to put childrens television presenters into Room 101, on the television talk show of that name.

==Stand-up comedy==
Ó Briains stand up international career took off around this time as he began to tour heavily, performing across Europe, Asia, Australia and North America, with gigs in Dubai, Paris, Adelaide, Shanghai and New York City. He was a regular at the Cat Laughs Kilkenny Cat Laughs and the Edinburgh Festival, as well as making one notable appearance at the Just For Laughs festival in Montreal in 2002, where he was offered a prestigious gala show because of his performances at the Irish showcase. Around this time, Ó Briain presented the weekend game show Its a Family Affair on RTÉ Television. It was the first time he worked with former Channel 4 commissioning editor Séamus Cassidy. They later set up the production company Happy Endings Productions, and together they produced (and Ó Briain presented) the chat show Buried Alive (2003) and most famously in Ireland The Panel (Irish TV series) The Panel (2003–2006).

In 2005, Ó Briains show at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe was the biggest selling solo comedy show of the festival.
In early 2006, Ó Briain conducted his third tour of the United Kingdom and Ireland. This included shows at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane Theatre Royal, in London as well as nine nights in Dublin at Vicar Street. His second night in the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, in London was recorded for his first live DVD. His fourth multinational tour followed in late 2007, which as he says in his routine has "no title" but was almost entitled "You Had to Be There".

He performed new tours across the UK and Ireland in 2008, 2010 and 2012. His 2010 tour played for 150 dates, to over 225,000 people, including 37 nights in Vicar St. in Dublin, 9 nights at the Hammersmith Apollo in London and a first date in Dubai. Each of those three tours were recorded for DVD, and the 2012 tour, entitled Craic Dealer, was similarly recorded during his shows at the Edinburgh Playhouse in May 2012. 2015 saw Dara on tour again with Crowd Tickler.

On 12 March 2011, Ó Briain, Jack Whitehall and Jon Richardson (comedian) Jon Richardson set a new Guinness World Records title for hosting the highest stand-up comedy gig in the world, on a British Airways flight in support of Comic Relief.
In 2011, Ó Briain took part in two shows of the 16-date Uncaged Monkeys tour with Brian Cox (physicist) Professor Brian Cox, Robin Ince, Ben Goldacre, Simon Singh and Chris Addison.

==Panel shows==
The Panel (Irish TV series) The Panel was hosted by Ó Briain.  Three times nominated for the Best Entertainment show Irish Film and Television Awards IFTA (Irish Film and Television Awards) the show has a rotating cast of panellists, usually drawn from the world of Irish comedy, discussing the events of the week and interviewing guests. The most regular panellists have been Colin Murphy (comedian) Colin Murphy, Ed Byrne (comedian) Ed Byrne, Neil Delamere, Andrew Maxwell and Mairead Farrell (radio presenter) Mairéad Farrell.

Around 2002, with his profile rising in the UK due to his one-man shows at the Edinburgh Fringe Edinburgh Festival Fringe, Ó Briain began making appearances on UK television shows such as Bring Me the Head of Light Entertainment (a Five (channel) Channel 5 production) and Never Mind the Buzzcocks. In early 2003, he hosted the second series of BBC Scotlands Live Floor Show.
His big break in UK television came in 2003, when he appeared as a guest panellist on news quiz, Have I Got News for You, subsequently making several appearances as guest host of the show.
In 2003, Ó Briain was nominated at the Chortle Comedy Awards for Live Comedy in the categories Best Compère and Best Headline Act (which he would go on to win). In 2004, he won the Best Headliner award again, as well as being nominated for Best Full-length Show. Since 2005, he has been the host of the comedy panel show Mock the Week on BBC Two, a blend between Have I Got News for You and Whose Line Is It Anyway? (UK TV series) Whose Line Is It Anyway?. He is a relatively frequent panellist on QI and wrote about Ireland in the QI series E annual, and appears occasionally on Just a Minute on BBC Radio 4. He has also appeared in and hosted the stand-up show Live at the Apollo (TV series) Live at the Apollo.

Ó Briain has appeared several times in the BBC Radio science / comedy show The Infinite Monkey Cage which premiered on 30 November 2009 on BBC Radio 4 Radio 4.
In 2010, Ó Briain replaced Adrian Chiles as the presenter of The Apprentice: Youre Fired!. After five years, he quit following the 2014 series.
In 2016, Ó Briain hosted a panel show about video games called Dara O Briains Go 8 Bit.
Series 3 began in February 2018.

==Chat shows, television programmes and writing==
Since 2006, Ó Briain has starred in the BBCs Three Men in a Boat (TV Series) Three Men in a Boat series, with Griff Rhys Jones and Rory McGrath. The series has included the trio rowing the River Thames, as in the 1889 novel of the same name, sailing from London to the Isle of Wight for a sail boat race, borrowing numerous watercraft vessels to make their way from Plymouth to the Isles of Scilly. In 2009, the three took to the Irish canals and rivers on a trip from Dublin to Limerick. In 2010, they explored the Isles of Scotland. Other notable television work includes hosting the BBC sitcom writing competition "Last Laugh".

On 14 September 2005, Ó Briain appeared as a guest on Room 101 (TV series) Room 101, where he got rid of childrens television presenters (following his work as a presenter on Echo Island) and once-in-a-lifetime experiences (he was given a once-in-a-lifetime experience on the show by being the second guest to pull the lever that opens the chute to Room 101 – the first had been former host Nick Hancock). He also got rid of banter, Gillian McKeith  and magicians.

Ó Briain has also been an extensive newspaper columnist, with pieces published in many national papers in both the UK and Ireland, from The Sunday Times (UK) The Sunday Times to Daily Telegraph The Daily Telegraph. On 9 August 2006, he hosted the first edition of his chat show Turn Back Time (TV) Turn Back Time.
On 1 October 2009, Ó Briain released his first book entitled Tickling the English,  about what he considers it means to be English. As part of its promotion, he has stated that he is enthusiastic about English culture and a student of History of England English history, his favourite events being the Gin Craze and the English Civil War civil war.
In a review of Tickling the English Ó Briain was described as Terry Wogan Sir Terry Wogans heir apparent as Britains "favourite Irishman".
Ó Briain has hosted the British Academy Video Games Awards in 2009, 2010 and again in 2011 and once more in 2012, when highlights were also shown on Challenge (TV channel) Challenge.
From 3 to 5 January 2011, Ó Briain and Brian Cox (physicist) Brian Cox presented Stargazing Live on BBC Two, three programmes based at the Jodrell Bank Observatory, scheduled to coincide with the Conjunction (astronomy and astrology) conjunction of Jupiter and Uranus, a Solar eclipse of January 4, 2011 partial solar eclipse, and the Quadrantids Quadrantid meteor shower.
The two presenters hosted a second series of three-hour-long programmes, plus follow-up 30-minute shows called Stargazing Live: Back to Earth, from 16 to 18 January 2012.  From 8 to 10 January 2013, they presented the third series, again accompanied by Back to Earth.
From 16 April 2012, Ó Briain presented an eight-episode series of Dara Ó Briain: School of Hard Sums School of Hard Sums with co-host Marcus du Sautoy on Dave (TV channel) Dave.  Each episode was themed and Ó Briain along with a guest attempted to solve various conundrums posted by du Sautoy. Series 2 began on 1 May 2013. On 6 November 2012, Ó Briain began presenting a series called Dara Ó Briains Science Club, in which he and other celebrities discuss science issues. The first edition of this programme features Ed Byrne (comedian) Ed Byrne talking about how closely related he is to the Neanderthals. Each episode in the series includes a short animated history that has been created by the UK animation and illustration agency 12Foot6.
In 2013, Ó Briain joined Jack Dee, Chelsee Healey, Greg James, Melanie C and Philips Idowu in Through Hell and High Water, a Comic Relief challenge which involved British celebrities canoeing the most difficult rapids of the Zambezi River. They raised over £1 million for the charity.

Dara and Eds Great Big Adventure, a 2015 three-part fly-on-the-wall television series, followed Ó Briain and Ed Byrne on their journey by car down the Pan-American Highway.
In June 2015, Dara Ó Briain Meets Stephen Hawking, in which Ó Briain travels to Cambridge for a series of interviews with theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking, aired on BBC One.

From January to March 2016, Ó Briain presented Tomorrow’s Food, a three-episode series alongside Angela Hartnett, Chris Bavin and Dr Shini Somara. The BBC One show looked at the technologies and produce in farms, supermarkets, kitchens and restaurants around the world.
Ó Briain presented the 2016 reboot of Robot Wars (TV series) Robot Wars starting on 24 July, as well as the subsequent 2 series in 2017.

==Film work==
Ó Briain had a cameo role as a generalised alternative comedy alternative comedian in the 2013 British film The Look of Love (film) The Look of Love directed by Michael Winterbottom.

==Personal life==
Ó Briain married his wife Susan, a surgeon, in 2006;
they live in West London with their two children.
He was best man at his best friend Ed Byrne (comedian) Ed Byrnes wedding in 2008 after Byrne had previously been Ó Briains best man.
He describes himself as looking like "one of Tony Sopranos henchmen, on a bad day", and admits that, "living in London I probably only get recognised about once a day. And thats okay by me. Im not a celebrity. And I certainly dont see myself as one."
Ó Briain has said he sees himself as an atheist, but "Irish Catholic ethnically Catholic": "Im staunchly atheist, I simply dont believe in God, even if he believes in me. But Im still Catholicism Catholic, of course. Catholicism has a much broader reach than just the religion. Im technically Catholic, its the box you have to tick on the census form: Dont believe in God, but I do still hate Rangers F.C. Rangers.{{"}}
His surname is the original Irish form of OBrien. He said, "My dad was involved in the Irish language movement and changed it. Even Irish people are now confused by it".
Ó Briain is an Arsenal F.C. fan,
and he is also a fan of Gaelic games. When his tweet congratulating London GAA London on knocking Sligo GAA Sligo out of the 2013 All-Ireland Senior Football Championship Football Championship was read out on The Sunday Game, Ó Briain expressed amazement and vowed to try to have one read out every week.
Ó Briain has also expressed an interest in Irish cricket, and has written about the subject for the The Guardian Guardian newspaper.
<!-- Please see discussion on Talk page before editing this section. Thanks. -->
Ó Briain was one of fifteen members of a racing greyhound syndicate for several years.
The December 2009 transmission of Three Men Go to Ireland featured their dog Snip Nua who, by the time of transmission, had been animal euthanasia put down following injuries sustained in a race. Ó Briain was so upset about the death that he and his fellow syndicate members immediately disbanded the syndicate permanently.
In early 2010 a series of small demonstrations were held outside some of Ó Briains tour venues, urging him to publicly denounce the sport of greyhound racing due to the dogs death.
==Stand-up DVDs==
{  class="wikitable" border="1"
 -
!Title
!Released
!Venue
 -
  Live at the Theatre Royal
  13 November 2006
  Theatre Royal, Drury Lane Theatre Royal, London
 -
  Dara Ó Briain Talks Funny – Live in London
  17 November 2008
  Hammersmith Apollo, London
 -
  This Is the Show
  22 November 2010
  Hammersmith Apollo, London
 -
  Craic Dealer
  12 November 2012
  Edinburgh Playhouse The Playhouse, Edinburgh
 -
  Crowd Tickler
  23 November 2015
  Hammersmith Apollo, London
 }

==See also==
* Auditors of the Literary and Historical Society (University College Dublin)
