Dave Spikey (born David Gordon Bramwell, 6 October 1951)
is an English comedian, actor, writer and film producer. He is best known for his stand-up comedy, writing and starring in the British comedy programme Phoenix Nights, presenting quiz shows such as Bullseye (UK game show) Bullseye and Chain Letters and playing team captain in the first four series of 8 Out of 10 Cats.

==Biography==

===Early career===
Born in Farnworth, Lancashire, Spikey spent his early career working as a biomedical scientist in the haematology laboratory at Bolton General Hospital. It was during this period in the 1980s that Spikey scripted and performed in a number of amateur pantomimes with a group of like-minded health workers called the Bolton Health Performers.
Early in his career Spikey won a talent show called Stairway to the Stars with a routine about juggling on a motorbike, judged by legendary comedian Larry Grayson who took him aside to tell him he had potential and his routine was fantastic. Spikey was inspired to pursue a part time comedy career while working in Bolton General Hospital.
In 1992, Spikey was asked to form a double act with Rick Sykes, as purely a one-off to support a popular musical duo called Intaglio.
Dave and Rick were known as Spikey and Sykey. The double acts most notable success came on ITV Central Central TVs New Faces show.
In 1993 he was voted "best up and coming comedian" by the Manchester Evening news.

In 1996 Spikey first met Peter Kay, with whom he would later collaborate, at the North-West Comedian of the Year Awards which Kay won that year
and Spikey was Master of ceremonies#Comedy clubs compèring.
He was the final host of UK gameshow Chain Letters in 1997, following on from Jeremy Beadle, Andrew OConnor (actor) Andrew OConnor, Allan Stewart (comedian) Allan Stewart, Ted Robbins and Vince Henderson.

===Success===
Spikey won the Best Newcomer award at the British Comedy Awards, and then co-wrote and starred in Peter Kays Phoenix Nights Phoenix Nights on Channel Four as Jerry St. Clair#Jerry .27St. Clair.27 Dignan Jerry St. Clair. In 2003, Spikey released his first DVD, The Overnight Success Tour. 2003 was also the year he won ‘Best Comedy Performance at Leicester Comedy Festival 2003’, an award he describes as “the weirdest trophy I’ve got on my shelf.”
In late  2004, he wrote the ITV (TV network) ITV comedy-drama Dead Man Weds (2005), in which he also co-starred with Johnny Vegas. The drama follows the attempts of the new editor (Spikey) of the local newspaper, The Fogburrow Advertiser and News, to drum up excitement in the area to cover in his paper, to the disdain and disinterest of his lead (and only) reporter (Vegas). Nancy Banks-Smith described the drama as “endearing and cheerful.”
In 2005, Spikey became one of the regular team captains on the comedy panel game, 8 Out of 10 Cats, leaving before the 2007 series. That year also saw the release of his second live DVD, Living the Dream.

In 2006, Spikey became the host of a revived version of the darts-based quiz show Bullseye (UK game show) Bullseye. The show ran for two series on Challenge (TV channel) Challenge to generally unfavourable reviews, The Guardian calling it an “abhorrent reboot.”
Spikey developed two new projects which were commissioned by the BBC, being Magnolia, a sitcom about painters and decorators, and Footballers Lives – a comedy about a pub football team, neither made it beyond pilots. He was also on the panel for talent show When Will I Be Famous? (TV series) When Will I Be Famous?. Spikey returned to stand-up and live shows again and has regularly released DVDs of his shows. His chosen subject on Celebrity Mastermind in 2006 was human blood; he won.

In 2010 Spikey was voted into the Channel 4 100 Greatest Stand-Ups by the British public.
In 2017 he appeared as a self-obsessed businessman, Mr Gruff, in British romantic comedy film Finding Fatimah.
Spikey celebrated 30 years in stand up with a new retrospective, Juggling on a Motorbike which began touring in 2017. The title refers back to his very first live performances which began his career in comedy, a routine which he recreates at the end of his show. The show is largely autobiographical and follows his performances over the past 30 years of stand up.
===Other interests===
Dave Spikey is patron of the non-profit radio station Chorley FM (not to be confused with fictitious radio station made famous by That Peter Kay Thing and Phoenix Nights).
Spikeys first book, He Took My Kidney, Then Broke My Heart, was published in October 2009 by Michael OMara Books. This was followed in 2010 by a biography, Under the Microscope: My Life from the same publisher.
Spikey is a supporter of the League Against Cruel Sports and appeared in a short film for the group in 2013. He has been quoted: "It is shocking to think anyone would want to turn the clock back to a time when chasing animals to exhaustion and encouraging them to be ripped apart by a pack of dogs for sport was legal."
He describes himself as a “devout vegetarian and animal lover” as well as being the patron of Pet Rehome, a Bolton based animal rescue centre.
== Stand-up DVDs ==
{  class="wikitable" border="1"
 -
!Title
!Released
!Notes
 -
  Overnight Success Tour – Live
  17 November 2003
  Live at Leeds City Varieties
 -
  Living the Dream – Live
  7 November 2005
  Live at Oldham Coliseum Theatre Oldham Coliseum
 -
  The Best Medicine Tour – Live
  9 November 2009
  Live at Palace Theatre, Mansfield Mansfield Palace Theatre
 }
