David Michael Letterman (born April 12, 1947) is an American television host, comedian, writer, and producer. He hosted late night television talk shows for 33 years, beginning with the February 1, 1982, debut of Late Night with David Letterman on NBC, and ending with the May 20, 2015, broadcast of Late Show with David Letterman on CBS. In total, Letterman hosted 6,028 episodes of Late Night and Late Show,
surpassing friend and mentor Johnny Carson as the longest-serving late night talk show host in American television history.
In 1996 Letterman was ranked 45th on TV Guide{{}}s 50 Greatest TV Stars of All Time.
In 2002, The Late Show with David Letterman was ranked seventh on TV Guides 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time.
Letterman currently hosts the Netflix series My Next Guest Needs No Introduction with David Letterman. 

Letterman is also a television and film producer. His company, Worldwide Pants, produced his shows as well as The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson and several prime-time comedies, the most successful of which was Everybody Loves Raymond, now in Broadcast syndication syndication.

Several late-night hosts have cited Lettermans influence, including Conan OBrien (his successor on Late Night (NBC) Late Night), Stephen Colbert (his successor on Late Show (CBS TV series) The Late Show), Jimmy Fallon, Jimmy Kimmel, and Seth Meyers.

== Early life and career ==
Letterman was born in Indianapolis, Indiana. His father, Harry Joseph Letterman (April 15, 1915 – February 13, 1973),
was a florist.
His mother, Dorothy Mengering Dorothy Marie Letterman Mengering (née Hofert; July 18, 1921 – April 11, 2017),
a church secretary for the Second Presbyterian Church of Indianapolis, was an occasional figure on Lettermans show, usually at holidays and birthdays.
He lived on the north side of Indianapolis (Broad Ripple area), about 12 miles from the Indianapolis Motor Speedway and he enjoyed collecting model cars, including racers.
In 2000, he told an interviewer for Esquire (magazine) Esquire that, while growing up, he admired his fathers ability to tell jokes and be the life of the party. Harry Joseph Letterman survived a heart attack at age 36, when David was a young boy. The fear of losing his father was constantly with Letterman as he grew up.
The elder Letterman died of a second heart attack
at age 57.

File:DavidLettermanAtBSU.JPG alt= thumb Lettermans association with Ball State University was recognized by a renaming ceremony for their David Letterman Communication and Media Building in 2006.
Letterman attended his hometowns Broad Ripple High School and worked as a stock boy at the local Atlas Supermarket.
According to the Ball State Daily News, he originally had wanted to attend Indiana University, but his Academic grading in the United States grades were not good enough, so he instead attended Ball State University, in Muncie, Indiana.
He is a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity, and he graduated in 1969 from what was then the Department of Radio and Television. A self-described average student, Letterman later endowed a scholarship for what he called "C students" at Ball State.
Though he registered for the draft and passed his physical after graduating from college, he was not drafted for service in Vietnam war Vietnam because of receiving a draft lottery (1969) draft lottery number of 346 (out of 366).
Letterman began his broadcasting career as an announcer and newscaster at the colleges student-run radio station—WBST—a 10-watt campus station which now is part of Indiana Public Radio.
He was fired for treating classical music with irreverence.
He then became involved with the founding of another campus station—WAGO-AM 570 (now WWHI, 91.3).
He credits Paul Dixon (entertainer) Paul Dixon, host of the Paul Dixon Show, a Cincinnati-based talk show also shown in Indianapolis while he was growing up, for inspiring his choice of career:
<blockquote>
 I was just out of college [in 1969], and I really didnt know what I wanted to do. And then all of a sudden I saw him doing it [on TV]. And I thought: Thats really what I want to do!
</blockquote>
=== Weatherman ===
Letterman began his career as a radio talk show host on WNTS WNTS (AM) and on Indianapolis television station WLWI (which changed its call sign to WTHR in 1976) as an anchor and Meteorologist weatherman. He received some attention for his unpredictable on-air behavior, which included congratulating a tropical storm for being upgraded to a Tropical cyclone hurricane and predicting hail stones "the size of canned hams."
He would also occasionally report the weather and the days very high and low temps for fictitious cities ("Eight inches of snow in Bingree and surrounding areas") while on another occasion saying that a state border had been erased when a satellite map accidentally omitted the state border between Indiana and Ohio, attributing it to dirty political dealings. ("The higher-ups have removed the border between Indiana and Ohio making it one giant state. Personally, Im against it. I dont know what to do about it.")
He also starred in a local kiddie show, made wisecracks as host of a late night TV show called "Freeze-Dried Movies" (he once acted out a scene from Godzilla (1954 film) Godzilla using plastic dinosaurs), and hosted a talk show that aired early on Saturday mornings called Clover Power,
in which he interviewed 4-H members about their projects.
In 1971 Letterman appeared as a pit road reporter for ABC Sports tape-delayed coverage of the 1971 Indianapolis 500 Indianapolis 500 (his first nationally telecast appearance; WLWI was the local ABC affiliate at the time).
Letterman was initially introduced as Chris Economaki, although this was corrected at the end of the interview (Jim McKay announced his name as Dave Letterman). Letterman interviewed Mario Andretti, who had just crashed out of the race.

=== Move to Los Angeles ===
File:The Comedy Store.jpg alt= thumb Lettermans comedic career took hold at Los Angeles The Comedy Store Comedy Store.
In 1975, encouraged by his then-wife Michelle and several of his Sigma Chi fraternity brothers, Letterman moved to Los Angeles, with hope of becoming a comedy writer.
He and Michelle packed their belongings in his pickup truck and headed west.
As of 2012, he still owned the truck.
In Los Angeles, he began performing comedy at The Comedy Store.
Jimmie Walker saw him on stage; with an endorsement from George Miller (comedian) George Miller, Letterman joined a group of comedians whom Walker hired to write jokes for his stand-up act, a group that at various times would also include Jay Leno, Paul Mooney (comedian) Paul Mooney, Robert Schimmel, Richard Jeni, Louie Anderson, Elayne Boosler, Byron Allen, Jack Handey, and Steve Oedekerk.
By the summer of 1977, Letterman was a writer and regular on the six-week summer series The Starland Vocal Band Show, broadcast on CBS.
He hosted a 1977 pilot for a game show entitled The Riddlers
(that was never picked up), and co-starred in the Barry Levinson-produced comedy special Peeping Times that aired in January 1978. Later that year, Letterman was a cast member on Mary Tyler Moores variety show, Mary (1978 TV series) Mary.
Letterman made a guest appearance on Mork &amp; Mindy (as a parody of Erhard Seminars Training EST leader Werner Erhard)
and appearances on game shows such as The $20,000 Pyramid,
The Gong Show, Hollywood Squares, Password Plus
and Liars Club, as well as the Canadian cooking show Celebrity Cooks (November 1977), talk shows such as 90 Minutes Live (February 24
and April 14, 1978),
and The Mike Douglas Show (April 3, 1979 and February 7, 1980).  He was also screen tested for the lead role in the 1980 film Airplane!, a role that eventually went to Robert Hays.
His dry, sarcastic humor caught the attention of scouts for The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson, and Letterman was soon a regular guest on the show. Letterman became a favorite of Carson and was a regular guest host for the show beginning in 1978. Letterman credits Carson as the person who influenced his career the most.
== NBC ==

=== Morning show ===
{{Main The David Letterman Show}}
On June 23, 1980, Letterman was given his own morning comedy show on NBC, The David Letterman Show. It was originally 90 minutes long, but was shortened to 60 minutes in August 1980.
The show was a critical success, winning two Emmy Awards, but was a ratings disappointment and was canceled in October 1980.
=== Late Night with David Letterman ===
{{Main Late Night with David Letterman}}
File:David Letterman Emmy 1987.jpg thumb upright Letterman at the 38th Primetime Emmy Awards in 1986

NBC kept Letterman under contract (paying him) to be able to try him in a different time slot. Late Night with David Letterman debuted February 1, 1982; the first guest on the first show was Bill Murray.
Murray later went on to become one of Lettermans most recurrent guests, guesting on the shows 30th anniversary episode, which aired January 31, 2012 and on the very last show, which aired May 20, 2015. The show ran Monday through Thursday at 12:30 a.m. Eastern time zone Eastern Time, immediately following The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson (a Friday night broadcast was added in June 1987). It was seen as being edgy and unpredictable, and soon developed a cult following (particularly among college students). Lettermans reputation as an wikt:acerbic acerbic interviewer was borne out in verbal sparring matches with Cher
(who even called him an asshole on the show
), Shirley MacLaine,
Charles Grodin, and Madonna (entertainer) Madonna. The show also featured comedy segments and running characters, in a style heavily influenced by the 1950s and 1960s programs of Steve Allen.
The show often featured quirky, genre-mocking regular features, including "Stupid Pet Tricks"
(which had its origins on Lettermans morning show), Stupid Human Tricks,
dropping various objects off the roof of a five-story building,
demonstrations of unorthodox clothing (such as suits made of Alka-Seltzer,
Velcro
and suet), a recurring Top 10 list (David Letterman) Top 10 list, the Monkey-Cam
(and the Audience Cam), a facetious letter-answering segment,
several "Film[s] by My Dog Bob" in which a camera was mounted on Lettermans own dog
(often with comic results) and Small Town News,
all of which would eventually move with Letterman to CBS.

Other memorable moments included Letterman using a bullhorn to interrupt a live interview on Today (NBC program) The Today Show, announcing that he was the NBC News president and that he was not wearing any pants;
walking across the hall to Studio 6B, at the time the news studio for WNBC-TV, and interrupting Al Rokers weather segments during Live at Five (WNBC TV series) Live at Five; and staging "elevator races", complete with commentary by NBC Sports Bob Costas. In one infamous appearance, in 1982, Andy Kaufman (who was already wearing a neck brace) appeared with professional wrestler Jerry Lawler, who slapped and knocked the comedian to the ground (though Lawler and Kaufmans friend Bob Zmuda later revealed that the event was work (professional wrestling) staged).
== CBS ==

=== Late Show with David Letterman ===
{{Main Late Show with David Letterman}}
File:The Late Show.jpg thumb The Ed Sullivan Theater, where Late Show with David Letterman was recorded

In 1992, Johnny Carson retired, and many fans believed that Letterman would become host of The Tonight Show. When NBC instead gave the job to Jay Leno, Letterman departed NBC to host his own late-night show on CBS, opposite The Tonight Show at 11:30 p.m., called the Late Show with David Letterman. The new show debuted on August 30, 1993, and was taped at the historic Ed Sullivan Theater, where Ed Sullivan broadcast his The Ed Sullivan Show eponymous variety series from 1948 to 1971. For Lettermans arrival, CBS spent {{US$ 8}} million in renovations.
In addition to that cost, CBS also signed Letterman to a lucrative three-year, {{US$ 14}} million/year contract,
doubling his Late Night salary. The total cost for everything (renovations, negotiation right paid to NBC, signing Letterman, announcer Bill Wendell, Paul Shaffer, the writers and the band) was over {{US$ 140}} million.{{Citation needed date=September 2017}}

But while the expectation was that Letterman would retain his unique style and sense of humor with the move, Late Show was not an exact replica of his old NBC program. Recognizing the more formal mood (and wider audience) of his new time slot and studio, Letterman eschewed his trademark blazer with khaki pants and white wrestling shoes wardrobe combination in favor of expensive shoes, tailored suits and light-colored socks. The monologue was lengthened. Paul Shaffer and the Worlds Most Dangerous Band followed Letterman to CBS, but they added a brass section and were rebranded the CBS Orchestra (Shaffers request); a small band had been mandated by Carson while Letterman occupied the 12:30 slot. Additionally, because of intellectual property disagreements, Letterman was unable to import many of his Late Night segments verbatim,
but he sidestepped this problem by simply renaming them (the "Top Ten List" became the "Late Show Top Ten", "Viewer Mail" became the "CBS Mailbag", etc.) Time (magazine) Time magazine stated that "Lettermans innovation ... gained power from its rigorous formalism", as his biographer Jason Zinoman puts it, he was "a fascinatingly disgruntled eccentric trapped inside a more traditional talk show."
=== Popularity ===
The main competitor of the Late Show was NBCs The Tonight Show, which was The Tonight Show with Jay Leno hosted by Jay Leno for 22 years
<!--Letterman started after Leno-->
, but from June 1, 2009, to January 22, 2010, was The Tonight Show with Conan OBrien hosted by Conan OBrien. In 1993 and 1994, the Late Show consistently gained higher ratings than The Tonight Show. But in 1995, ratings dipped and Lenos show consistently beat Lettermans in the ratings from the time that Hugh Grant came on Lenos show after Grants arrest for soliciting a prostitute;
Leno typically attracted about five million nightly viewers between 1999 and 2009. The Late Show lost nearly half its audience during its competition with Leno, attracting 7.1 million viewers nightly in its 1993–94 season and about 3.8 million per night as of Lenos departure in 2009.
In the final months of his first stint as host of The Tonight Show, Leno beat Letterman in the ratings by a 1.3 million viewer margin (5.2 million to 3.9 million), and Nightline and the Late Show were virtually tied.
Once OBrien took over Tonight, however, Letterman closed the gap in the ratings.
OBrien initially drove the median age of Tonight Show viewers from 55 to 45, with most older viewers opting to watch the Late Show instead.
Following Lenos return to The Tonight Show, however, Leno regained his lead.
Lettermans shows have garnered both critical and industry praise, receiving 67 Emmy Award nominations, winning 12 times in his first 20 years in late night television. From 1993 to 2009, Letterman ranked higher than Leno in the annual Harris Interactive Harris Poll of Nations Favorite TV Personality 12 times.
For example, in 2003 and 2004 Letterman ranked second in that poll, behind only Oprah Winfrey, a year that Leno was ranked fifth.
Leno was higher than Letterman on that poll three times during the same period, in 1998, 2007, and 2008.
=== Hosting the Academy Awards ===
On March 27, 1995, Letterman acted as the host for the 67th Academy Awards ceremony. Critics blasted Letterman for what they deemed a poor hosting of the Oscars, noting that his irreverent style undermined the traditional importance and glamor of the event.
In a joke about their unusual names (inspired by a celebrated comic essay in The New Yorker, "Yma Dream" by Thomas Meehan), he started off by introducing Uma Thurman to Oprah Winfrey, and then both of them to Keanu Reeves: "Oprah...Uma. Uma...Oprah," "Have you kids met Keanu?" This and many of his other jokes fell flat.
Although Letterman attracted the highest ratings to the annual telecast since 1983, many felt that the bad publicity garnered by Lettermans hosting caused a decline in the Late Shows ratings.
Letterman recycled the apparent debacle into a long-running gag. On his first show after the Oscars, he joked, "Looking back, I had no idea that thing was being televised." He lampooned his stint two years later, during Billy Crystals opening Oscar skit, which also parodied the plane-crashing scenes from that years chief nominated film, The English Patient (film) The English Patient.

For years afterward, Letterman recounted his hosting the Oscars, although the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences continued to hold Letterman in high regard and they had invited him to host the Oscars again.
On September 7, 2010, he made an appearance on the premiere of the 14th season of The View (U.S. TV series) The View, and confirmed that he had been considered for hosting again.

=== Heart surgery hiatus ===
On January 14, 2000, a routine check-up revealed that an artery in Lettermans heart was severely obstructed. He was rushed to emergency surgery for a coronary artery bypass surgery quintuple bypass.
During the initial weeks of his recovery, reruns of the Late Show were shown and introduced by friends of Letterman including Drew Barrymore,
Ray Romano, Robin Williams, Bonnie Hunt, Megan Mullally, Bill Murray, Regis Philbin, Charles Grodin, Nathan Lane, Julia Roberts,
Bruce Willis, Jerry Seinfeld, Martin Short, Steven Seagal, Hillary Clinton, Danny DeVito, Steve Martin, and Sarah Jessica Parker.

Subsequently, while still recovering from surgery, Letterman revived the late night tradition that had virtually disappeared on network television during the 1990s of guest hosts by allowing Bill Cosby, Kathie Lee Gifford, Dana Carvey, Janeane Garofalo, and others to host new episodes of the Late Show.

Upon his return to the show on February 21, 2000, Letterman brought all but one of the doctors and nurses on stage who had participated in his surgery and recovery (with extra teasing of a nurse who had given him bed baths—"This woman has seen me naked!"),
including Dr. O. Wayne Isom and physician Louis Aronne, who frequently appeared on the show. In a show of emotion, Letterman was nearly in tears as he thanked the health care team with the words "These are the people who saved my life!" The episode earned an Emmy Award Emmy nomination.

For a number of episodes, Letterman continued to crack jokes about his bypass, including saying, "Bypass surgery: its when doctors surgically create new blood flow to your heart. A bypass is what happened to me when I didnt get The Tonight Show! Its a whole different thing." In a later running gag he lobbied his home state of Indiana to rename the freeway circling Indianapolis (Interstate 465 I-465) "The David Letterman Bypass." He also featured a montage of faux news coverage of his bypass surgery, which included a clip of Lettermans  heart for sale on the Home Shopping Network. Letterman became friends with his doctors and nurses. In 2008, a Rolling Stone interview stated
<blockquote>
 he hosted a doctor and nurse whod helped perform the emergency quintuple-bypass heart surgery that saved his life in 2000. These are people who were complete strangers when they opened my chest, he says. And now, eight years later, theyre among my best friends.
</blockquote>
Additionally, Letterman invited the band Foo Fighters to play "Everlong",
introducing them as "my favorite band, playing my favorite song."
During a later Foo Fighters appearance, Letterman said that Foo Fighters had been in the middle of a South American tour which they canceled to come play on his comeback episode.{{citation needed date=December 2017}}

Letterman again handed over the reins of the show to several guest hosts (including Bill Cosby, Brad Garrett, Whoopi Goldberg,
Elvis Costello,
