
David Race is an American stand-up comedian, actor, and former radio personality.

Race was born in Brooklyn, New York (state) New York and raised on Long Island, by his adoptive parents Robert and Judith.

==Career==
After graduating high school, Race went to Broadcasting school in New York City. While in broadcasting school, Race secured an internship on The Howard Stern Show, at WNYL (FM) WXRK in New York. At the time the Stern show had only one intern assigned to the show, so Race found himself sharing office space with Stern and his crew, and appearing on the show almost daily, as "Dave the Intern". Race was sometimes a central figure on the show, most notably when he poked a hole in the bottom of a visually impaired guests drinking cup, causing the guests water to leak continuously. This incident resulted in several days of Stern recounting the event, which has also been featured on the "Best of Stern" several times over the years. This incident was also written about in the book Howard Stern A to Z by Luigi Lucaire. While on the show, Race often co-hosted the "Best of Stern" broadcasts airing on WXRK in New York, and WIP-FM WYSP in Philadelphia, during Sterns frequent vacations.

After leaving the internship, Race took the first of many on-air radio jobs as a disc jockey, beginning at WRCN-FM WRCN on Long Island, and later at WBAB on Long Island, amongst others. At WBAB, Races nightly radio show followed the show done by Gregg Huges Opie, who would ultimately also leave WBAB, and go on to success as half of the Opie and Anthony radio show. Races last full-time on-air radio job was at WMMR in Philadelphia.

After leaving WMMR, Race made a transition to stand-up comedy. This began in Philadelphia, and after several years of doing stand-up comedy all over the east coast, resulted in a move to Los Angeles.

Since moving to Los Angeles, Race has appeared in comedy sketches on Jimmy Kimmel Live! on American Broadcasting Company ABC-TV.<ref name=autogenerated1>[http://improv.com/comedian.cfm?id=1296 Improv Comedy Clubs :: David Race<!-- Bot generated title -->]</ref> His stand-up comedy is broadcast frequently on the Sirius XM Radio Sirius/Raw Dog Comedy XM Raw Dog comedy channel in the U.S. and Canada. He has appeared in several stand-up comedy festivals. And he makes frequent appearances performing stand-up comedy at the The Improv Hollywood Improv in Los Angeles, and at most of the other major comedy venues in the region.<ref name=autogenerated1 />

In 2014, Race began hosting the podcast, "[http://comedianstalkingaboutbigfoot.com Comedians Talking About Bigfoot]".

David Race has also appeared in several independent films, national television commercials, and created and hosted an online spoof celebrity news show, called "Celebrity Eulogy".
