David Cross (born April 4, 1964)
is an United States American stand-up comedy stand-up comedian, actor, director, and writer, known primarily for his stand-up performances, the HBO sketch comedy series Mr. Show with Bob and David Mr. Show, and his role as Tobias Fünke in the sitcom Arrested Development (TV series) Arrested Development. Cross created, wrote, executive produced, and starred in The Increasingly Poor Decisions of Todd Margaret, developed and had a prominent role in Freak Show (TV series) Freak Show, appeared on Modern Family, portrayed Ian Hawke in the first three live action/CGI films Alvin and the Chipmunks in film starring Alvin and the Chipmunks, and voiced List of Kung Fu Panda characters#Master Crane Crane in the Kung Fu Panda (franchise) Kung Fu Panda film franchise.

==Early life==
Cross was born in Atlanta, Georgia (U.S. state) Georgia,
the son of Barry and Susi, the former of whom emigrated from Leeds, England.
Six months after his birth, Crosss family moved to Florida. After additional moves to New York and Connecticut, the family settled back in Roswell, Georgia, where Cross remained for nearly a decade. His family was poor and Barry left the family when Cross was 10 years old; the two have not spoken since he was 19, though they both primarily resided in New York City until Cross sold his home there in 2011.
Cross and his family were evicted from their home while living in Georgia. He spent some time living in motels and at friends homes while growing up.
He has two sisters and once bailed his youngest sibling out of jail.
<!--He attended Northside High School of the Performing Arts (now North Atlanta High School), graduating in 1982. Cross was elected treasurer of his senior class and was voted "Most Humorous" by his classmates.-->
==Career==

===Stand-up===
At age 17, Cross began performing stand-up comedy. The day after he graduated from North Atlanta High School Northside High School in Atlanta, Cross relocated to New York City. Lacking a plan, he drifted, working briefly for a lawn care company on Long Island. Later, he enrolled at Emerson College in Boston. He would drop out after only a semester, but during his time there, Cross joined This is Pathetic, a college sketch group, where he met John Ennis (actor) John Ennis.  In the summer of 1985, the two aspiring actors took a road trip to Los Angeles, although this did not significantly further their acting careers.  In Boston, Cross began to perform stand-up more regularly. From the mid-1980s to the early 1990s, Boston had a booming comedy scene, although Cross did not fit the types of acts being booked most of the time. He recalls that it was "a loud-, dumb-, pandering-, racist-, homophobic-type scene".
In 1990, a new comedy scene began to emerge at the comedy club chain Catch a Rising Star (comedy clubs) Catch a Rising Star. Alongside Janeane Garofalo, Louis C.K., and other comics, Cross appeared regularly several nights a week. Cross formed the sketch comedy group "Cross Comedy" with 12 other performers, and they put on a new show every week. They were known for playing tricks on the audience, such as introducing fake comics or planting fake hecklers. Cross became increasingly focused on his comedy work.
Cross later performed at the alternative comedy club Un-Cabaret in Los Angeles, where radio artist Joe Frank heard him, and hired him to appear in Franks 1994 radio programs, A Hearing and The Last Run (in 1997 combined to become The OJ Chronicles
), where Cross appears as OJs valet. Cross also starred in the Joe Frank program Jam, produced in 1999,
and has more recently worked with Joe Frank on radio shows for KCRWs Unfictional.
Crosss stand-up comedy blends political commentary and satire.
In 1999, he performed a one-hour comedy special, The Pride Is Back, on HBO. He has released three recordings: Shut Up You Fucking Baby!, Its Not Funny, and Bigger and Blackerer. Crosss stand up material was featured in Comedy Centrals animated series Shorties Watchin Shorties. In 2004, Shut Up You Fucking Baby! was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Comedy Album. In 2003, he released his first tour film Let America Laugh and was named #85 on Comedy Centrals list of the 100 greatest stand-ups of all time. He appears on Un-Cabaret compilation albums, including Freak Weather Feels Different and The Good, the Bad and the Drugly.

Cross announced a 51-date nationwide stand-up tour from Jan. 26, 2016, in San Diego through April 24, 2016, in Oklahoma City.
Titled “Making America Great Again!”, it was his first tour in six years.
===Television and film===
File:DavidCross2007.jpg thumb right Cross at the 2007 Plug Awards
Cross began his professional television career as a writer on The Ben Stiller Show. The series hired him toward the end of its run, and he occasionally made brief appearances in the sketches. He had a speaking role in "The Legend of T.J. OPootertoot", a sketch written almost entirely by Cross. It was during this period that he first met Bob Odenkirk, with whom he would later co-create the HBO sketch comedy series Mr. Show with Bob and David Mr. Show in 1995. Cross won an Emmy for his work on The Ben Stiller Show in 1993.
In 1997 he played Newton, an employee of the NYC Morgue in Men in Black he would reprise the role of Newton as an owner of a video rental store in Men in Black II in 2002.

Cross later co-starred as Tobias Fünke in Arrested Development (TV series) Arrested Development, originally intended to be only a minor role.
He also played smaller roles on programs such as Just Shoot Me!, The Drew Carey Show, NewsRadio, Strangers with Candy, Tim and Eric Awesome Show, Great Job, and Aqua Teen Hunger Force. From October 2005, Cross regularly appeared on Comedy Centrals The Colbert Report as Stephen Colbert (character) Stephen Colberts nemesis Russ Lieber, a fictional liberal radio talk show host from Madison, Wisconsin Madison, Wisconsin.
Cross developed an animated series for Comedy Central called Freak Show (TV series) Freak Show, which co-starred H. Jon Benjamin and was cancelled due to low ratings.
He has appeared several times on Wonder Showzen.

Cross teamed up with Mr. Show director and producer Troy Miller and Odenkirk to produce a feature film Run Ronnie Run, based on one of their Mr. Show characters. The film satirized the reality television craze, and featured cameos from many stars; however, Odenkirk got into conflict with the studio New Line Cinema, and they then released it direct-to-video. In 1994 and again in 1999, Cross was a guest voice actor on Joe Franks radio show, featured in the episodes "The Last Run", "A Hearing", "The O.J. Chronicles", and "Jam". In 2013, he returned, making an appearance in an episode of Franks radio show, entitled "A Conversation."
In 2004, Cross provided voices for a Marine in Halo 2 and a store clerk named List of characters in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas#Zero Zero in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas.
He was also the voice of the "Happy-Time Harry" doll and Bert Banana in Aqua Teen Hunger Force (although the part was credited as Sir Willups Brightslymoore). Cross has made guest appearances in Tim and Eric Awesome Show, Great Job!. He directed the music video for The Black Keys song "10 A.M. Automatic," a spoof of public-access television. Paste Magazine ranked it number 24 on their list of the 50 Best Music Videos of the Decade (2000–2009).
Cross appeared in The Strokes music video for "Juicebox (song) Juicebox" as a bad local "morning zoo" radio DJ. He also appeared in the The New Pornographers New Pornographers video for "Use It," in Superchunks video for "Watery Hands" (along with Janeane Garofalo), and in Yo La Tengos video for "Sugarcube" (along with Bob Odenkirk and John Ennis). Cross contributes to Vice (magazine) Vice magazine, writing a column, My America. In 2005, he contributed to the United Nations Childrens Fund UNICEF benefit song "Do They Know Its Halloween?" and appeared in one of PETAs "Id Rather Go Naked Than Wear Fur" campaigns.
In the Beastie Boys 2006 concert film Awesome; I Fuckin Shot That!, Cross portrays Nathaniel Hörnblowér in the fictional segment "A Day in the Life of Nathaniel Hörnblowér." In Im Not There, Cross portrays Allen Ginsberg. Both Bill Lawrence (producer) Bill Lawrence and Zach Braff of the TV series Scrubs (TV show) Scrubs were eager to have Cross make a cameo appearance on the series as Tobias Fünke, but due to the series cancellation, the plan never came to fruition.
Cross provided commentary on the Vicarious music video DVD for Tool (band) Tool. He has previously performed comedy as an opening act for the band and its members appeared on Mr. Show several times. He portrayed Ian Hawke in Alvin and the Chipmunks (film) Alvin and the Chipmunks, Alvin and the Chipmunks: The Squeakquel, and Alvin and the Chipmunks: Chipwrecked
and voiced List of Kung Fu Panda characters#Master Crane Crane in the Kung Fu Panda (franchise) Kung Fu Panda film franchise.

Cross starred in Davids Situation, a television pilot pilot for HBO. It filmed in May 2008 and included many Mr. Show alumni at the taping. On August 6, 2008, Bob Odenkirk announced on bobanddavid.com that Davids Situation would not be produced.
File:9.13.09DavidCrossByLuigiNovi.jpg thumb left Cross at the 2009 Brooklyn Book Festival
Crosss black comedy series The Increasingly Poor Decisions of Todd Margaret, in which he stars and co-writes with Shaun Pye, has run on Channel 4 in the United Kingdom and IFC (U.S. TV channel) IFC in the United States since October 2010,
for a total 18 episodes. On March 29, 2010, his first comedy special in six years, Bigger and Blackerer, was streamed on Epix HD. A CD with "slightly different content" was released on May 25, 2010.
In 2009, Cross released his first book I Drink for a Reason. The book features memoirs, satirical fictional memoirs, and material from Cross that originally appeared in other publications.
In September 2009, Cross performed at his own comedy stage at the All Tomorrows Parties (music festival) ATP New York 2009 music festival, for which he picked Eugene Mirman, H. Jon Benjamin, Jon Glaser, and Derrick C. Brown Derrick Brown &amp; The Navy Gravy to join him. In the same year, Cross and Benjamin created and wrote for Paid Programming (TV pilot) Paid Programming on Adult Swim. Paid Programming was not picked up for a full series and Benjamin referred to it as an "abject failure".
Cross starred alongside Julia Stiles and America Ferrera in Its a Disaster, which premiered at the 2012 Los Angeles Film Festival. Oscilloscope Laboratories acquired US distribution rights to the film, releasing it in select theaters beginning April 13, 2013.
Crosss directorial debut film Hits (film) Hits premiered at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival.
Instead of selling the film rights  to distributors, Cross instead opted to sell the movie over Bit Torrent through their "bundles" program,
which BitTorrent launched to help "legitimize" the platform.
