Denis Colin Leary (born August 18, 1957) is an American actor, writer, producer, singer and comedian.

Leary was the star and co-creator of Rescue Me (U.S. TV series) Rescue Me, which ended its seventh and final season on September 7, 2011. He has starred in many films including playing Captain George Stacy in Marc Webbs film, The Amazing Spider-Man (2012 film) The Amazing Spider-Man, Cleveland Browns Head Coach Vince Penn in Ivan Reitmans film, Draft Day, and as the voice of Francis in A Bugs Life and List of Ice Age characters#Diego Diego in the Ice Age (franchise) Ice Age franchise.

From 2015 to 2016, Leary wrote and starred in the comedy series, Sex &amp; Drugs &amp; Rock &amp; Roll (TV series) Sex &amp; Drugs &amp; Rock &amp; Roll on FX (TV channel) FX.

==Early life==
Denis Colin Leary was born on August 18, 1957, in Worcester, Massachusetts, the son of Roman Catholic immigrant parents from County Kerry, Republic of Ireland Ireland.
His mother, Nora (née Sullivan) (b. 1929), was a maid, and his father, John Leary (1924–1985), was an auto mechanic.
Being the son of Irish parents,
Leary is a citizen of both the United States and Ireland.
Through marriage,{{clarify date=September 2016}} Leary is a third cousin of talk show host, Conan OBrien.
He attended Saint Peters High School (now Saint Peter-Marian High School), in Worcester and graduated from Emerson College,
in Boston. At Emerson, he met fellow comic Mario Cantone, whom to this day Leary considers his closest friend.
At the school, he founded the Emerson Comedy Workshop, a troupe that continues on-campus today.
After graduating with the Emerson Class of 1981, he took a job at the school teaching comedy writing classes and maintained the job for five years.
He received an honorary doctorate and spoke briefly at his alma maters undergraduate commencement ceremony on May 16, 2005;
he is thus credited as Dr. Denis Leary on the cover of his 2009 book, Why We Suck.

==Career==
Leary began working as a comedian in the Boston comedy scene of the 1980s at the underground club, Play It Again Sams; however, his first real gig was at the Rascals Comedy Club as part of the TV show, The Rascals Comedy Hour, on October 18, 1990. He wrote and appeared on a local comedy series, The Late, Late Show, hosted by his friend, Lenny Clarke, and written by writer, Martin Olson. Leary and Clarke both spoke about their early affiliations and influences in the Boston comedy scene in the documentary film, When Standup Stood Out (2006), and during this time, he developed his stage persona. He appeared in skits on the MTV game show Remote Control (game show) Remote Control, playing such characters as Keith Richards of the Rolling Stones, the brother of co-host Colin Quinn, and artist Andy Warhol. {{citation needed date=March 2015}}

Leary earned fame when he ranted about R.E.M. in an early 1990s MTV sketch comedy sketch. Several other commercials for MTV quickly followed, in which Leary would rant at high speeds about a variety of topics, playing off the then-popular and growing Alternative rock alternative scene. One of these rants serves as an introduction to the video of "Shamrocks and Shenanigans (Boom Shalock Lock Boom)" by House of Pain. He released two album (Music) records of his stand-up comedy: No Cure for Cancer (1993) and Lock n Load (album) Lock n Load (1997). In late 2004, he released the extended play EP Merry Fuckin Christmas Merry F#%$in Christmas, which included a mix of new music, previously unreleased recordings, and some tracks from Lock n Load. {{citation needed date=March 2015}}

In 1993, his sarcasm sardonic song about the stereotypical American male, "Asshole (song) Asshole", achieved much notoriety; however, this bit was allegedly stolen from Louis C.K., discussed by Louis on an interview on the Opie and Anthony Show.
It was voted No. 1 in an Australian youth radio poll (the Triple J Hottest 100).
The song was used as part of the Holsten Brewery Holsten Pils series of ads in the United Kingdom UK, in which Leary was participating, with adapted lyrics criticizing a drunk driver.
The single was a minor hit there, peaking at No. 58 in the UK Singles Chart in January 1996.
Leary has appeared in more than 40 films, including: The Sandlot as Scotts stepfather Bill, Monument Ave., The Matchmaker (1997 film) The Matchmaker, The Ref, Draft Day, Suicide Kings, Dawg (film) Dawg, Wag the Dog, Demolition Man (film) Demolition Man, Judgment Night (film) Judgment Night, The Thomas Crown Affair (1999 film) The Thomas Crown Affair, and Operation Dumbo Drop. He had a tiny part in Oliver Stones Natural Born Killers that was eventually cut. He held the lead role in two television series, The Job (2001 TV series) The Job and Rescue Me (U.S. TV series) Rescue Me, and he co-created the latter, in which he played Tommy Gavin, a New York City firefighter dealing with alcoholism, family dysfunction and other issues in post-September 11 attacks 9/11 New York City.

He received Emmy Award nominations in 2006 and 2007 for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series for Rescue Me, and in 2008 for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Miniseries or a Movie for the HBO movie Recount (film) Recount.
Leary was offered the role of Dignam in The Departed (2006) but turned it down due to scheduling conflicts with Rescue Me. He provided voices for characters in animated films, such as a fire-breathing dragon named Flame in the series The Agents, a pugnacious ladybug named List of A Bugs Life characters#Francis Francis in A Bugs Life and a prehistoric saber-toothed tiger named List of Ice Age characters#Diego Diego in the Ice Age (franchise) Ice Age film series. He has film producer produced numerous movies, television shows, and specials through his production company, Apostle; these include Comedy Centrals Shorties Watchin Shorties, the stand-up special Denis Learys Merry F#$%in Christmas, and the movie Blow (film) Blow. {{citation needed date=March 2015}}

As a Boston Red Sox fan, he narrated the official 2004 World Series film (Q Video/MLB Productions, 2004). In 2006, Leary and Lenny Clarke appeared on television during a Red Sox telecast and, upon realizing that Red Sox first baseman Kevin Youkilis is Jewish, delivered a criticism of Mel Gibsons antisemitic comments.
As an ice hockey fan, Leary hosted the National Hockey League video NHLs Greatest Goals.
In 2003, he was the subject of the Comedy Central Roast of Denis Leary.
Leary did the TV voiceover for MLB 2K8 advertisements, where he used his trademark rant style in baseball terms, and ads for the 2009 Ford F-150 pickup truck.{{Citation needed date=June 2011}} He has also appeared in commercials for Hulu and DirecTVs NFL Sunday Ticket package.{{Citation needed date=June 2011}} Leary was a producer of the Fox Broadcasting series Canterburys Law, and wrote and directed its pilot episode. Canterburys Law aired in the spring of 2008 and was canceled after eight episodes. On September 9, 2008, Leary hosted the sixth annual Fashion Rocks event, which aired on CBS. In December of the year, he appeared in a video on funnyordie.com critiquing a list of some of his "best" films, titled "Denis Leary Remembers Denis Leary Movies".
Also in 2008, Leary voiced a guest role as himself on the "Lost Verizon" episode of The Simpsons.

On March 21, 2009, he began the "Rescue Me Comedy Tour" in Atlantic City, New Jersey. The 11-date tour, featuring Rescue Me co-stars Lenny Clarke and Adam Ferrara, was Learys first stand-up comedy tour in 12 years.
The Comedy Central special Douchebags and Donuts, filmed during the tour, debuted on American television on January 16, 2011, with a DVD release on January 18, 2011.
He played Captain George Stacy in the movie The Amazing Spider-Man (2012 film) The Amazing Spider-Man, released in July 2012.
He wrote the Sirens (2014 TV series) American adaptation of Sirens (2011 TV series) Sirens.
He is an Executive Producer of the documentary, Burn (2012 film) Burn, that chronicles the struggles of the Detroit Fire Department. Burn was the winner of the 2012 Tribeca Film Festival Audience Award.
He created a television series for FX, in which he also stars in the lead role, called Sex &amp; Drugs &amp; Rock &amp; Roll (TV series) Sex &amp; Drugs &amp; Rock &amp; Roll. A 10-episode first season was ordered by FX, which premiered on July 16, 2015.
The show was renewed for a second season, which was broadcast in the summer of 2016, and was canceled after the broadcast of the second season.
Leary has been the narrator for NESNs documentary show about the Boston Bruins Behind The B since the show began in 2013.

==Personal life==
File:Denis Leary Shankbone 2010 NYC.jpg thumb right Leary and his wife Ann Lembeck at the 2010 Tribeca Film Festival
Leary has been married to author Ann Lembeck Leary since 1989.
They met when he was her instructor in an English class at Emerson College. They have two children, son John Joseph "Jack" (born 1990) and daughter Devin (born 1992).
Ann Leary published a memoir, An Innocent, a Broad, about the premature birth of their son on an overseas visit to London. She has also written a novel, Outtakes From a Marriage, which was published in 2008. Her second novel, The Good House, was published in 2013.
Leary is an ice hockey fan, and has his own backyard hockey rink at his home in Roxbury, Connecticut, with piping installed under the ice surface to help the ice stay frozen.
He is a fan of the Boston Bruins and the Boston Red Sox,
as well as the Green Bay Packers.
Leary describes himself as a "John F. Kennedy Jack Kennedy Democratic Party (United States) Democrat" with some Conservatism in the United States conservative ideologies, including support for the military. Leary told Glenn Beck, "I was a life-long Democrat, but now at my age, Ive come to realize that the Democrats suck, and the Republican Party (United States) Republicans suck, and basically the entire system sucks. But you have to go within the system to find what you want."
Leary has said of his religious beliefs, "Im a lapsed Catholic in the best sense of the word. You know, I was raised with Irish parents, Irish immigrant parents. My parents, you know, prayed all the time, took us to Mass. And my father would sometimes swear in Irish language Gaelic. It doesnt get more religious than that. But, no, after a while, they taught us wrong. I didnt raise my kids with the fear of God. I raised my kids with the sense of, you know, to me, Jesus was this great guy...."
