Dermot John Morgan (31 March 1952 – 28 February 1998) was an Irish comedian, actor and previously a schoolteacher, who achieved international recognition for his role as Father Ted Crilly in the Channel 4 sitcom Father Ted.

==Early life and education==
Morgan was born on 31 March 1952 in Dublin. His parents were Donnchadh Morgan, an artist and sculptor with a passion for drama, and Hilda "Holly" Stokes, a "celebrated beauty" from Dún Laoghaire. Donnchadh died young of an aneurysm, leaving Hilda with four children: Dermot, Paul, Denise, and Ruth, who died in childhood.
He was educated at Oatlands College, Stillorgan, and University College, Dublin (UCD).

==Career==
===Father Trendy and The Live Mike===
Morgan came to prominence as part of the team behind the highly successful Raidió Teilifís Éireann RTÉ television show The Live Mike, presented by Mike Murphy (Ireland) Mike Murphy. Morgan made his debut in the media on the Morning Ireland radio show produced by Gene Martin, whose sister Ella was the mother of one of Morgans friends. It was through this contact that Morgan made the break into radio and eventually television. Between 1979 and 1982 Morgan, who had been a teacher at St. Michaels College, Dublin St. Michaels College, Ailesbury Road, played a range of comic characters who appeared between segments of the show, including Father Trendy, an unctuous trying-to-be-cool Roman Catholic Catholic priest (inspired by Brian DArcy Father Brian DArcy) given to drawing ludicrous parallels with non-religious life in two-minute chats to camera. His other characters included a Gaelic Athletic Association GAA bigot who waved his Hurley (stick) hurley stick around aggressively while verbally attacking his pet hates. He lampooned the Thomas Davis (Young Irelander) Thomas Osborne Davis song "A Nation Once Again" by singing about a dog who saves his Irish Republican Army (IRA) master by eating a grenade during a search by notorious British paramilitary unit the Black and Tans. When the dog farts and the grenade detonates, the British commented: "It must have been something he ate." The song climaxed with the words: "I hope that I shall live to see Fido an Alsatian once again."
Morgans success led him to leave teaching and become a full-time comedian.

===Kenny Live===
Morgans relationship with Raidió Teilifís Éireann RTÉ became strained as the station tried without success to make use of what it saw as his considerable but undisciplined talent; a number of pilot shows were never aired. Morgan returned to the screen in the late 1980s playing his past roles and new ones – initially on Kenny Live, a Saturday chat show presented by Pat Kenny launched to fill a gap in the schedules when The Late Late Show (Ireland) The Late Late Show moved to a Friday slot. Kenny Live axed its comedy slot in response to negative public responses to the shows format.

===As a singer: Mr Eastwood===
Morgan released a comedy single, Thank You Very Very Much, Mr Eastwood, in December 1985.
It was a take on the fawning praise that internationally successful Irish boxer Barry McGuigan gave his manager, Barney Eastwood, at the end of successive bouts. The single featured lines by McGuigan, Ronald Reagan, Bob Geldof and Pope John Paul II,
and was the List of Irish Singles Chart Christmas number ones Christmas number one in the Irish singles chart in 1985.
===Scrap Saturday===
Morgans biggest Irish broadcasting success occurred in the late 1980s on the Saturday morning radio comedy show Scrap Saturday,
in which Morgan, co-scriptwriter Gerard Stembridge, Owen Roe and Pauline McLynn mocked Irelands political, business and media establishment. The shows treatment of the relationship between the ever-controversial Taoiseach Charles Haughey and his press secretary PJ Mara proved particularly popular, with Haugheys dismissive attitude towards Mara and the latters adoring and grovelling attitude towards his "Boss ... the greatest Leader, Man of Destiny, Statesman, Titan, a Colossus" winning critical praise.

Morgan pilloried Haugheys propensity for claiming a family connection to almost every part of Ireland he visited by making reference to a famous advertisement for Harp (beer) Harp beer, which played on the image of someone returning home and seeking friends, especially "Sally OBrien, and the way she might look at you". In Morgans version, Haughey visited somewhere in the world and, after a few seconds, the music from the advertisement began playing. At this point, the Taoiseach exclaimed "did I tell you, PJ, about my cousins in ... " before mentioning supposed relatives such as "my cousin François Haughey" (France), "Helmut Haughey" (Germany), "Yassar Haughey" (Palestine) or "Yitzak Haughey" (Israel) to the despairing Mara, who groaned "Ah now Jaysus, Boss, come on now. Ah Jaysus [sigh]!"

The Haughey/Mara "double act" became the star turn in a series that mocked both sides of the political divide, from Haughey and his advisors to opposition Fine Gael TD Michael Noonan as Limerick disk jockey "Morning Noonan Night". When RTÉ axed the show in the early 1990s a national outcry ensued. Morgan lashed the decision, calling it "a shameless act of broadcasting cowardice and political subservience".{{citation needed date=January 2015}} An RTÉ spokesman said: "The show is not being axed. Its just not being continued!"{{citation needed date=January 2015}}

In 1991, Morgan received a Jacobs Award for his contribution to Scrap Saturday from the Irish national newspaper radio critics.

===Father Ted===
Already a celebrity in Ireland, Morgans big break in Britain came in Channel 4s Irish sitcom Father Ted, which ran for three series from 1995 to 1998. Writers Graham Linehan and Arthur Mathews (writer) Arthur Mathews auditioned many actors for the title role, but Morgans enthusiasm won him the part.

Father Ted focused on the misadventures of three Irish Roman Catholic priests who live in a parish on the fictional Craggy Island, located off the west coast of Ireland. Father Ted Crilly (Morgan), Father Dougal McGuire (Ardal OHanlon) and Father Jack Hackett (Frank Kelly) live chaotically together in Craggy Islands parochial house, along with their housekeeper Mrs Doyle (Pauline McLynn). The series featured many other supporting characters, including the camp, hyperactive Father Noel Furlong, played by comedian and future talk show host Graham Norton.
The show received widespread popularity around the world and universal critical acclaim, often being labelled as one of the greatest sitcoms ever made. The show made Morgan a household name and won him legions of fans, developing somewhat of a cult following.

====BAFTA Award====
In 1998 Father Ted show won a British Academy of Film and Television Arts BAFTA award for the best comedy, Morgan won a BAFTA for best actor, and McLynn was named best actress.

===Unreleased works===
Morgan said in an interview with Gay Byrne on The Late Late Show in 1996 that he was writing a screenplay entitled Miracle of the Magyars, based on a real-life incident in the 1950s when the Archbishop of Dublin (Roman Catholic) Archbishop of Dublin forbade Catholics from attending a football match between the Ireland national football team (FAI) Republic of Ireland and Yugoslavia national football team Yugoslavia on religious and spiritual grounds. Yugoslavia won the match 4–1. Morgan planned to use Hungary as the opposing side to Ireland – hence the title. At the time of his death in 1998, he had completed the screenplay but the film was never made.

Morgans first project after Father Ted was to be Re-united, a sitcom about two retired footballers sharing a flat in London. According to former manager John Fischer, Morgan was scripting the programme and planned to take the part of "an Eamon Dunphy-type who had gone on to work in journalism, but had ended up living with an old football pal". Mel Smith was in talks for the role of the friend.
Morgan had been commissioned to write a drama series for the BBC.
==Personal life==
Dermot married Susanne Garmatz, a native of Hamburg, and they had two sons: Don (born 1978) and Rob (born 1980).
He later began a relationship with Fiona Clarke, with whom he had another son, Ben (born 1993).
