Donald Jay Rickles (May 8, 1926 – April 6, 2017) was an American stand-up comedian, actor and author. He became well known as an Insult comedy insult comic. His prominent film roles included Run Silent, Run Deep (1958 film) Run Silent, Run Deep (1958) with Clark Gable and Kellys Heroes (1970) with Clint Eastwood, and beginning in 1976 he enjoyed a two-year run starring in the NBC television sitcom C.P.O. Sharkey.

He received widespread exposure as a popular guest on numerous talk and variety shows, including The Dean Martin Show, The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson and Late Show with David Letterman, and later voiced Mr. Potato Head#Toy Story series Mr. Potato Head in the Toy Story (franchise) Toy Story franchise. He won a Primetime Emmy Award for Individual Performance in a Variety or Music Program Primetime Emmy Award for the 2007 documentary Mr. Warmth: The Don Rickles Project.

==Early life==
Donald Jay Rickles was born to Jews Jewish parents in Queens, New York (state) New York, on May 8, 1926.
His father Max Rickles (1897-1953) emigrated in 1903 with his Lithuanian parents from Kaunas
(then in the Russian Empire), and his mother, Etta (née Feldman) (1898-1984), was born in New York City to Austrian immigrant parents.
Rickles grew up in Jackson Heights, Long Island Jackson Heights, New York.
After graduating from Newtown High School (New York City) Newtown High School, Rickles enlisted in the United States Navy and served during World War II on the motor torpedo boat tender USS Cyrene (AGP-13) USS Cyrene (AGP-13) as a seaman first class. He was Honorable discharge honorably discharged in 1946.
Two years later, intending to be a dramatic actor, he studied at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts and then played bit parts on television. Frustrated by a lack of acting work, Rickles began performing comedy in clubs in New York, Miami, and Los Angeles. He became known as an insult comedian when he responded to his hecklers. The audience enjoyed these insults more than his prepared material, so he incorporated them into his act.
When he began his career in the early 1950s, he started calling ill-mannered members of the audience "hockey pucks".
His style was similar to that of an older insult comic, Jack E. Leonard, though Rickles denied Leonard influenced his style.
During an interview on Larry King Live, Rickles credited Milton Berles comedy style for inspiring him to enter show business.
==Career==
===1950s–1960s===
While working in the "Murray Franklins" nightclub in Miami Beach, Florida, early in his career, Rickles spotted Frank Sinatra and remarked to him, "I just saw your movie The Pride and the Passion and I want to tell you, the cannons acting was great." He added, "Make yourself at home, Frank. Hit somebody!"
Sinatra, whose pet name for Rickles was "bullet-head", enjoyed him so much that he encouraged other celebrities to see Rickles act and be insulted by him. Sinatras support helped Rickles become a popular headline performer in Las Vegas, Nevada Las Vegas.
During a The Dean Martin Celebrity Roast Dean Martin Celebrity Roast special, Rickles was among those who took part in Roast (comedy) roasting Sinatra,
and Rickles, too, was also roasted during another show in the series.
Rickles earned the nicknames "The Merchant of Venom" and "Mr. Warmth"
