Drew Allison Carey
(born May 23, 1958) is an American actor, comedian, sports executive, and game show host. After serving in the United States Marine Corps U.S. Marine Corps and making a name for himself in stand-up comedy, Carey eventually gained popularity starring in his own Situation comedy sitcom, The Drew Carey Show, and serving as host of the U.S. version of the improv comedy show Whose Line Is It Anyway? (U.S. TV series) Whose Line Is It Anyway?, both of which aired on American Broadcasting Company ABC.

Drew Carey has appeared in several films, television series, music videos, a made-for-television film, and a computer game. He has hosted the game show The Price Is Right (U.S. game show) The Price Is Right since 2007 on CBS. He is interested in a variety of sports and has worked as a photographer at United States mens national soccer team U.S. National Team soccer games. He is a minority owner of the Major League Soccer team Seattle Sounders FC. Carey has written an autobiography, Dirty Jokes and Beer Dirty Jokes and Beer: Stories of the Unrefined, detailing his early life and television career.

==Early life==
File:Drew Carey-Marines.jpg alt=Head shot of a young, blond Carey dressed in military fatigues. thumb upright Carey in his United States Marine Corps U.S. Marine Corps uniform, with United States Marine Corps rank insignia rank insignia of a Corporal#United States Marine Corps Corporal
Carey is the youngest of Lewis and Beulah Careys three sons and raised in the Old Brooklyn neighborhood of Cleveland, Ohio.
When Drew was eight years old, his father died from a brain tumor.
He played the cornet and trumpet in the marching band of James Ford Rhodes High School, from which he graduated in 1975.
He continued on to college at Kent State University (KSU) and was a part of Delta Tau Delta Fraternity. He was expelled twice for poor academic performance. He left KSU after three years. After leaving the university, Carey enlisted into the United States Marine Corps Reserve in 1981 and served for six years.
He moved to Las Vegas, Nevada Las Vegas for a few months in 1983, and for a short time worked as a bank teller and a waiter at Dennys.
==Stand-up career==
In 1985, he began his comedy career by following up on a suggestion by David H. Lawrence XVII David Lawrence (a disc jockey friend who had been paying Drew to write jokes for Davids radio show in Cleveland) to go to the library and borrow books on how to write jokes.
The following year, after winning an open-microphone contest, he became Master of Ceremonies at the Cleveland Comedy Club.
He performed at comedy clubs over the next few years in Cleveland and Los Angeles. He first came to the national eye as a comedian when he competed in the 1988 Star Search.
Carey was working as a stand-up comedian when he appeared on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson in November 1991.
His performance that night impressed Carson, who invited Carey to the couch next to his desk; this was considered a rare honor for any comedian.
In that same year, Carey joined the 14th Annual Young Comedians Special on HBO and made his first appearance on Late Night with David Letterman.
In 1994, Carey wrote his own stand-up comedy special, Drew Carey: Human Cartoon, which aired on Showtime (TV network) Showtime and won a CableACE Award for Best Writing.
==Acting career==

===Early roles===
His early stand-up career led to supporting roles on television shows, during which he developed the character of a hapless middle-class bachelor. In 1993, Carey had a small role in the film Coneheads as a taxi passenger. In 1994, Carey co-starred with John Caponera in The Good Life (1994 TV series) The Good Life, a short-lived Situation comedy sitcom on NBC.
After the show was cancelled, Bruce Helford, a writer on the show, hired Carey as a consultant for the television show Someone Like Me.
===The Drew Carey Show===
After their stint on Someone Like Me, Carey and Helford developed and produced the storyline for The Drew Carey Show. The sitcom revolved around a fictionalized version of Carey, as he took on the stresses of life and work with his group of childhood friends. The show premiered on September 13, 1995, on American Broadcasting Company ABC. In his autobiography, Carey revealed his frustration with having to deal with censorship censors and being unable to employ the off-color humor common in his stand-up routines.
Carey initially earned $60,000 per episode in the first seasons, then renegotiated for $300,000.
By the final season, he was earning $750,000 per episode.
The show had high ratings for its first few seasons, but declining ratings and increasing production costs (around $3 million per episode) precipitated its cancellation.
The program had a total of 233 episodes over its nine-year run, and Carey was one of four actors to appear in every episode.

===Improv television===
While still starring in The Drew Carey Show, Carey began hosting the American version of the improvisational theatre improvisational comedy show Whose Line Is It Anyway? (U.S. TV series) Whose Line Is It Anyway? in 1998. He would announce the improv guests, direct the games, and then would usually involve himself in the final game of the episode. The show ran for a total of 220 episodes until the shows cancellation in 2006. In 1998, the New York Friars Club made Carey the newest inductee of the groups Comedy Central Roast. His friend Ryan Stiles (who costarred in The Drew Carey Show and Whose Line Is It Anyway?) served as the roastmaster.
Careys income from Whose Line Is It Anyway? and The Drew Carey Show led to his inclusion on the Forbes list of highest-paid entertainers of 1998, at 24th with $45.5 million.
For The WB Television Network the WBs 2004–2005 prime time schedule, Carey co-produced and starred in Drew Careys Green Screen Show, a Spin-off (media) spin-off of Whose Line Is It Anyway?.
It was canceled by the WB, but picked up shortly afterward by Comedy Central.
The shows premise relied on the use of a green screen for all of the actors improv interactions. Animation on the screen was inserted during post-production.

In April 2011, Carey began hosting a primetime improv show, called Drew Careys Improv-A-Ganza. It was filmed at the MGM Grand Las Vegas MGM Grand in Las Vegas, Nevada, and first aired on April 11.
The show took on the premise of Whose Line? and Drew Careys Green Screen Show in that it features many of the same performers from both shows and did improv based on audience-provided suggestions.

===Improv All-Stars===
Carey was one of the founders of the Improv All-Stars, a group of eleven actors who perform in unscripted skits.
The group joined Carey in all three of his improv shows, Whose Line Is It Anyway?, Drew Careys Green Screen Show, and Drew Careys Improv-A-Ganza, and some members had major roles or guest-starred on The Drew Carey Show.
The Improv All-Stars travel on comedy tours, performing at comedy clubs throughout the United States.

==Game show host==

===Power of 10===
Beginning in 2007, Carey began hosting game shows, beginning with his April selection as host of the CBS game show pilot Power of 10 (U.S. game show) Power of 10. The show ran from August 7, 2007 to January 23, 2008 and aired twice weekly during the late summer and early fall. Each game featured contestants predicting how a cross-section of Americans responded to questions covering a wide variety of topics in polls conducted by CBS.
===The Price Is Right===
After taping the pilot episode for Power of 10, Carey was contacted by CBS about replacing Bob Barker—who had earlier announced his own retirement—as host of The Price Is Right. After initially turning down the offer, Carey announced on Late Show with David Letterman that he would succeed Barker as host of the program beginning in the fall of 2007.
His first episode of The Price Is Right was taped on August 15, 2007, and his shows began airing on October 15, 2007. In response to replacing Barker as host of the game show, Carey stated "You cant replace Bob Barker. I dont compare myself to anybody... Its only about what youre doing and supposed to do, and I feel like Im supposed to be doing this."
When Carey began hosting, the set, theme music, and show logo were updated. However, Carey kept the old closing line about Neutering spaying and neutering the pets that originated with Barker, although his version uses slightly different wording. During Careys second year as host, he began to write some of the sketches used during the The Showcase Showcase, which sometimes features guest appearances by stars of other CBS programs. In the April Fools Day 2013 episode, Carey and announcer George Gray (TV host) George Gray switched places with the models, letting the two men be the models for the episode. On the April Fools Day 2014 episode, Carey and Gray traded positions with Craig Ferguson (who was hosting The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson The Late Late Show at the time) and Shadoe Stevens, reprising their respective roles on Fergusons show while Ferguson hosted and Stevens announced on Price. On the first week of Season 46 (September 18-22, 2017), Carey celebrated his 10 years as host of the show, joining Barker as the only two to have hosted for at least a decade.

==Other roles and appearances==
File:DrewCareySD.jpg alt=Larger than life figure of Careys head and shoulders, posted above the studio entrance. thumb Entrance to Sounds Dangerous! at Disneys Hollywood Studios
Carey began appearing in commercials for restaurants in the late 1990s in Canada with The Great Root Bear, but his two-year contract with A&amp;W (Canada) A&amp;W Food Services of Canada was cut short in November 1998 after The High Road to China an episode of The Drew Carey Show featured McDonalds. As a result of his dismissal, Carey sued A&amp;W for compensation.
Disneys Hollywood Studios (then "Disney-MGM Studios"), part of Walt Disney World Resort in Florida, debuted a 12-minute attraction in 1999 titled Sounds Dangerous!.
In the show, a camera follows Carey through a day as an undercover detective. When his video camera fails, the audience is left in complete darkness, wearing earphones, following his adventure through sound cues. The attraction is now closed.

Also in 1999, Carey appeared in "Weird Al" Yankovics music video for his song Its All About the Pentiums "Its All About The Pentiums". 

In 2000, Carey was given a cameo appearance in the The Sims: House Party House Party expansion pack of the computer game The Sims.
To make him appear, the characters in the game must throw a successful party, which causes Carey to arrive in a limo and join the festivities. Carey is a fan of The Sims series, and during one April Fools episode of The Drew Carey Show, a scene takes place completely within The Sims.
Carey made several other cameo appearances in music videos, including "Weird Al" Yankovics "Its All About the Pentiums"
and Fountains of Waynes 2004 video for "Mexican Wine", giving an introduction to the video as if it were on a stage.
On January 21, 2001, Drew entered as Vince McMahons guest entrant in the Royal Rumble match.

Although primarily known for his television work, Carey has done limited film work, with his first appearance in 1993s Coneheads. His next film was the 2000 television film Geppetto (TV musical) Geppetto, which debuted on Walt Disney anthology television series The Wonderful World of Disney. The film, an adaptation of Pinocchio (1940 film) Pinocchio, included actor Wayne Brady, who had joined Carey on his improv shows.
Carey took singing lessons to prepare for the role.
In 2005, Carey appeared in three films: the animated film Robots (2005 film) Robots, where he provided a voice-over for the character List of Robots characters#Crank Crank; The Aristocrats (film) The Aristocrats, where he retold a dirty joke along with other celebrities; and the documentary Fuck (film) Fuck, where he was interviewed.

Carey provided the entertainment for the 2002 Annual White House correspondents dinner.
Once Carey completed his stand-up routine for the 1,800 guests, President George W. Bush, noting Careys improv work, made a joke of his own: "Drew? Got any interest in the Middle East?"
In 2003, he joined Jamie Kennedy to host the WBs live special Play for a Billion.
In September 2003, Carey led a group of comedians, including Blake Clark and The Drew Carey Shows Kathy Kinney, on a comedy tour of Iraq.
On June 8, 2006, Drew Careys Sporting Adventures debuted on the Travel Channel. In this series, Carey traveled throughout Germany to photograph multiple FIFA World Cup Football (soccer) soccer games while he immerses himself in the culture of the towns and states he visits.
In early 2008, Carey appeared in Matt Groenings The Simpsons as part of the List of The Simpsons episodes episode "All About Lisa" as a guest on the Krusty the Clown Show. He also surfaced in the second season of Community (TV series) Community, playing a well-liked former boss to Jeff Winger.

On March 4, 2014, it was announced on Good Morning America that Carey would compete on the Dancing with the Stars (U.S. season 18) season 18 of Dancing with the Stars. He was partnered with professional dancer Cheryl Burke. The couple was eliminated on the sixth week of competition, finishing in 8th place.

On the last Friday of every month, he hosts a three-hour radio show on Little Stevens Underground Garage entitled, "Drew Careys Friday Night Dance Party." SiriusXM.

On March 6, 2018, Carey appeared in an episode of NCIS (TV series) NCIS as a retired Marine. His character was a sergeant, the last rank he held in real life; real pictures of him in dress blues and everyday garb were on the plasma screen in the squadroom.

==Writing==
Carey has routinely written throughout his career, including developing his stand-up comedy routines in his early stand-up career, and then moving on to assist in writing sitcoms. In 1997, Carey published his autobiography, Dirty Jokes and Beer: Stories of the Unrefined, wherein he shared memories of his early childhood and of his fathers death when he was eight. He also revealed that he was once child sexual abuse molested, had suffered bouts of depression (mood) depression, and had made two suicide attempts by swallowing a large amount of sleeping pills.
