Edward Leo Peter McMahon Jr. (March 6, 1923 – June 23, 2009) was an American announcer, game show host, comedian, actor and singer. McMahon and Johnny Carson began their association in their first TV series, the American Broadcasting Company ABC game show Who Do You Trust?, running from 1957 to 1962. Then afterwards, McMahon would make his famous thirty-year mark as Carsons Sidekick#In television sidekick, announcer and second banana on NBCs The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson from 1962 to 1992.

He also hosted the original Star Search from 1983 to 1995, co-hosted TVs Bloopers &amp; Practical Jokes with Dick Clark from 1982 to 1998 and also presented sweepstakes for the direct marketing company American Family Publishers (not, as is commonly believed, its main rival Publishers Clearing House).
McMahon annually co-hosted the The Jerry Lewis MDA Labor Day Telethon Jerry Lewis MDA Telethon from 1973 to 2008. In the 1970s and 80s, he anchored the team of NBC personalities conducting the networks coverage of the Macys Thanksgiving Day Parade.

McMahon appeared in several films, including The Incident (1967 film) The Incident, Fun with Dick and Jane (1977 film) Fun With Dick and Jane, Full Moon High and Butterfly (1982 film) Butterfly, as well as briefly in the Bewitched (2005 film) film version of Bewitched. He also performed in numerous television commercials. According to Entertainment Weekly, McMahon is considered one of the greatest "sidekicks".
==Early years==
McMahon was born in Detroit, Michigan, to Edward Leo Peter McMahon Sr., a fund-raiser and entertainer, and his wife Eleanor (Russell) McMahon.
He was raised in Lowell, Massachusetts, often visiting his paternal Aunt Mary Brennan at her home on Chelmsford St. McMahon began his career as a bingo caller in Maine when he was fifteen. Prior to this, he worked as a carnival barker for three years in Mexico, Maine. He put himself through college as a pitchman for vegetable slicers on the Atlantic City boardwalk. His first broadcasting job was at WLLH-AM in his native Lowell and he began his television career in Philadelphia at WCAU-TV.
===Military service===
McMahon hoped to become a United States Marine Corps fighter pilot. Prior to the US entry into World War II, however, both the U.S. Army Army and U. S. Navy Navy required two years of college for their pilots program. McMahon enrolled into classes at Boston College and studied there from 1940 to 1941. On The Howard Stern Show in 2001, McMahon stated that after Pearl Harbor was attacked, the college requirement was not lifted and he still had to finish his two years of college before applying for Marine Corps flight training.

After completing the college requirement, McMahon was able to enlist as he previously wished.  His primary flight training was in Dallas, followed by fighter training in Pensacola, where he also earned his carrier landing qualifications. He was a Marine Corps flight instructor in F4U Corsairs for two years, finally being ordered to the Pacific fleet in 1945. However, his orders were canceled after the atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, forcing Japans surrender unconditionally.

As an officer in the reserves, McMahon was recalled to active duty during the Korean War. This time, he flew the OE-1 (the original Marine designation for the Cessna O-1 Bird Dog), an unarmed single-engine spotter plane. He functioned as an artillery spotter for the Marine batteries on the ground and as a forward controller for the Navy and Marine fighter bombers. He flew a total of 85 combat missions, earning six Air Medals. After the war, he stayed with the Marines as a reserve officer, retiring in 1966 as a Colonel (United States) colonel. In 1982, McMahon received a state commission as a Brigadier General (United States) brigadier general in the California Air National Guard, an honorary award to recognize his support for the National Guard and Reserves.
===The Catholic University of America===
After World War II, McMahon studied at The Catholic University of America  under the GI Bill and  graduated in 1949.  He majored in speech and drama while studying under the Rev. Gilbert Hartke and was a member of Phi Kappa Theta fraternity. After graduation, McMahon led the effort to raise funds for a theater to be named for Hartke and attended its dedication in 1970 with Helen Hayes and Sidney Poitier.
