Edward Regan Murphy (born April 3, 1961)
<!--citation for birth date, birthplace and full name Edward Regan Murphy-->
is an American comedian, actor, writer, singer, and producer. Murphy was a regular cast member on Saturday Night Live from 1980 to 1984. He has worked as a stand-up comedian and was ranked #10 on Comedy Centrals list of the 100 Greatest Stand-ups of All Time.
In films, Murphy has received Golden Globe Award nominations for his performances in 48 Hrs., the Beverly Hills Cop (film series) Beverly Hills Cop series, Trading Places, and The Nutty Professor (1996 film) The Nutty Professor. In 2007, he won the Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actor and received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his portrayal of soul music soul singer James "Thunder" Early in Dreamgirls (film) Dreamgirls.
Murphys work as a voice actor in films includes Thurgood Stubbs in The PJs, Donkey (Shrek) Donkey in DreamWorks Shrek series, and the Chinese dragon Mushu in Disneys Mulan (1998 film) Mulan. In some films, he plays multiple roles in addition to his main character, intended as a tribute to one of his idols Peter Sellers, who played multiple roles in Dr. Strangelove and elsewhere. He has played multiple roles in Coming to America, Wes Cravens Vampire in Brooklyn, the Nutty Professor films (where he played the title role in two incarnations, plus his characters father, brother, mother, and grandmother), Bowfinger, The Adventures of Pluto Nash, Norbit, and Meet Dave. As of 2014, Murphys films have grossed over $3.8 billion in the United States and Canada box office and $6.6 billion worldwide.
In 2015, his films made him the sixth-highest grossing actor in the United States.
In 2015, Murphy was awarded the Mark Twain Prize for American Humor by the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
==Early life==
Murphy was born in Brooklyn, New York City,
and raised in the boroughs Bushwick, Brooklyn Bushwick neighborhood.
His mother, Lillian (Laney), was a telephone operator, and his father, Charles Edward Murphy, was a transit police officer and an amateur actor and comedian.
His father died in 1969 when he was eight.
:{{quote "My mother and father broke up when I was three, and he died when I was eight, so I have very dim memories… He was a victim of the Murphy charm (laughs). A woman stabbed my father. I never got all the logistics. It was supposed to be one of those crime of passion crimes of passion: If I cant have you, no one else will-kind of deal. Someone said to me one day, Thats why you dont trust women. Get the fuck outta here. What are you, a fucking psychiatrist?" – Eddie Murphy
}}

When Murphys single mother became ill, the eight-year-old Murphy and his older brother Charlie Murphy Charlie lived in foster care for one year. In interviews, Murphy has said that his time in foster care was influential in developing his sense of humor. Later, he and his brother were raised in Roosevelt, New York, by his mother and stepfather Vernon Lynch, a foreman at an ice cream plant.
Around the age of 15, Murphy was writing and performing his own routines, which were heavily influenced by Bill Cosby and Richard Pryor.
==Career==

===Stand-up comedy===
His early comedy was characterized by frequent swearing and sketches lampooning a diverse group of people (including White Anglo-Saxon Protestants (WASPs), African Americans, Italian Americans, Obesity overweight people, and LGBT community gay people). Murphy released two stand-up specials. Eddie Murphy (album) Eddie Murphy was his first album, released in 1982.  Eddie Murphy Delirious Delirious was filmed in 1983 in Washington, D.C. Due to the popularity of Delirious, his concert film Eddie Murphy Raw (1987) received a wide theatrical release, grossing $50 million; the movie was filmed in the The Theater at Madison Square Garden Felt Forum section of Madison Square Garden in New York City.
Murphy has said his comedic influences include Bill Cosby,
Richard Pryor,
Redd Foxx,
and Robin Williams.
Comedians who in turn cite Murphy has having influenced them include Russell Brand,
Dave Chappelle,
and Chris Rock.
===1980s acting career===
File:EddieMurphy1988.jpg thumb upright Murphy in 1988
Murphy first earned national attention as a cast member on Saturday Night Live (SNL) and was credited with helping to revitalize the show during the early 1980s.
His notable characters included a grown-up version of the Little Rascals character Billie Thomas Buckwheat;
a street-wise childrens show host named Mr. Robinson (a spoof of Fred Rogers, who found it amusing
); and a morose, cynical Gumby, whose trademark slogan became an SNL catchphrase: "Im Gumby, dammit!"
