Ellen Lee DeGeneres ({{IPAc-en d ə ˈ dʒ ɛ n ər ə s}} {{respell də JEN ər əs}}; born January 26, 1958)
is an American comedian, television host, actress, writer, producer, and LGBT activist.
DeGeneres starred in the popular sitcom Ellen (TV series) Ellen from 1994 to 1998 and has hosted her Television syndication syndicated TV talk show, The Ellen DeGeneres Show, since 2003.

Her stand-up career started in the early 1980s, and included a 1986 appearance on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson.  As a film actress, DeGeneres starred in Mr. Wrong (1996), EDtv (1999), and The Love Letter (1999 film) The Love Letter (1999), and provided the voice of Dory in the Pixar animated films Finding Nemo (2003) and Finding Dory (2016); for Nemo, she was awarded the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress, the first time an actress won a Saturn Award for a voice performance. In 2010, she was a judge on American Idol for its American Idol (season 9) ninth season.

She starred in two television sitcoms, Ellen (TV series) Ellen from 1994 to 1998, and The Ellen Show from 2001 to 2002. During the fourth season of Ellen in 1997, she coming out came out as a lesbian in an appearance on The Oprah Winfrey Show. Her character, Ellen Morgan, also came out to a therapist played by Winfrey, and the series went on to explore various LGBT issues, including the coming-out process. This made her the first openly lesbian actress to play an openly lesbian character on television.
In 2008, she married her longtime girlfriend Portia de Rossi.

DeGeneres has hosted the Academy Awards, Grammy Awards, and the Primetime Emmys. She has authored four books and started her own record company, Eleveneleven, as well as a production company, A Very Good Production. She also launched a lifestyle brand, ED Ellen DeGeneres, which comprises a collection of apparel, accessories, home, baby, and pet items.
She has won 30 Emmy Award Emmys, 20 Peoples Choice Awards (more than any other person
), and List of awards and nominations received by Ellen DeGeneres numerous other awards for her work and charitable efforts. In 2016, she received the Presidential Medal of Freedom.
==Early life and education==
DeGeneres was born and raised in Metairie, Louisiana, to Betty DeGeneres Elizabeth Jane (née Pfeffer), a speech therapist, and Elliott Everett DeGeneres, an insurance agent.
She has one brother, Vance DeGeneres Vance, a musician and producer. She is of French, English, German, and Irish descent. She was raised as a Christian Scientist.
In 1973, her parents filed for separation and were divorced the following year.
Shortly after, Ellens mother married Roy Gruessendorf, a salesman. Betty Jane and Ellen moved with Gruessendorf from the New Orleans area to Atlanta, Texas. Vance stayed with his father. On a February 2011 episode of her show, she told her studio audience of a letter from the New England Historic Genealogical Society confirming she is 15th cousin to Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, via their shared common ancestor Thomas Fairfax (Gilling) Thomas Fairfax.
DeGeneres graduated from Atlanta High School in May 1976, after completing her first years of high school at Grace King High School in Metairie, Louisiana. She moved back to New Orleans to attend the University of New Orleans, where she Academic major majored in communication studies. After one semester, she left school to do clerical work in a law firm with a cousin, Laura Gillen.  Her early jobs included working at J. C. Penney,
and being a waitress at T.G.I. Fridays and another restaurant, a house painter, a hostess, and a bartender. She relates much of her childhood and career experiences in her comedic work.

==Stand-up comedy==
DeGeneres started performing stand-up comedy at small clubs and coffee houses. By 1981, she was the emcee at Clydes Comedy Club in New Orleans. DeGeneres cites Woody Allen and Steve Martin as her main influences at this time.
In the early 1980s she began to tour nationally, and in 1984 she was named Showtime (TV channel) Showtimes funniest person in America.
=== Netflix ===

In early 2017, it was announced DeGeneres will appear in a brand new Stand-up comedy stand up special for Netflix after 15 years not performing stand-up comedy.
==Film career==

File:EllenDeGeneres1997Emmies.jpg right thumb Ellen DeGeneres at the Emmy Awards, September 1997
Ellens work in the late 1980s and early 1990s included the film Coneheads (film) Coneheads. DeGeneres starred in a series of films for a show named Ellens Energy Adventure, which is part of the Universe of Energy attraction and pavilion at Walt Disney Worlds Epcot. The film also featured Bill Nye, Alex Trebek, Michael Richards, and Jamie Lee Curtis. The show revolved around DeGeneres falling asleep and finding herself in an energy-themed version of Jeopardy!, playing against an old rival, portrayed by Curtis, and Albert Einstein. The next film had DeGeneres co-hosting an educational look at energy with Nye. The ride first opened on September 15, 1996, as Ellens Energy Crisis, but was quickly given the more positive-sounding name Ellens Energy Adventure.

==Television career==

DeGeneres first regular TV role was in a short-lived Fox sitcom called Open House (1989 TV series) Open House. She played the role of Margo Van Meter, an office worker at the Juan Verde Real Estate company. The show co-starred Alison LaPlaca and Mary Page Keller. In 1992, producers Neal Marlens and Carol Black cast DeGeneres in their sitcom Laurie Hill (TV series) Laurie Hill, in the role of Nurse Nancy MacIntyre. The series was canceled after only four episodes, but Marlens and Black were so impressed with DeGeneres performance that they soon cast her in their next ABC pilot, These Friends of Mine, which they co-created with David S. Rosenthal.

File:Ellen DeGeneres 2.jpg thumb At the Governors Ball after the 46th Annual Emmy Awards telecast, September 1994
DeGeneres comedy career became the basis of the successful sitcom Ellen (TV series) Ellen, named These Friends of Mine during its first season. The American Broadcasting Company ABC show was popular in its first few seasons due in part to DeGeneres style of observational comedy observational humor; it was often referred to as a "female Seinfeld."
Ellen reached its height of popularity in April 1997, when DeGeneres came out as a lesbian on The Oprah Winfrey Show. Her character on the sitcom also coming out came out of the closet to her therapist, played by Oprah Winfrey.
The coming-out episode, titled "The Puppy Episode", was one of the highest-rated episodes of the show. The series returned for a fifth season but experienced falling Nielsen ratings ratings due to ABCs cutting back on promoting the show.{{citation needed date=November 2014}} It was believed that The Walt Disney Company, ABCs parent owner, had become uncomfortable with the subject matter depicted on the show now that DeGeneres character was openly gay.{{citation needed date=November 2014}} In May 1998, Ellen was canceled. DeGeneres returned to stand-up comedy and later re-established herself as a successful talk show host.

DeGeneres returned to television in 2001 with a new CBS sitcom, The Ellen Show. DeGeneres launched a daytime television talk show, The Ellen DeGeneres Show, in September 2003. One of several celebrity-hosted talk shows surfacing at the beginning of that season, including those of Sharon Osbourne and Rita Rudner, her show has consistently risen in the Nielsen ratings and received widespread critical praise. It was nominated for 11 Emmy Award Daytime Emmy Awards in its first season, winning four, including Best Talk Show. The show has won 25 Emmy Awards for its first three seasons on the air. DeGeneres is known for her dancing and singing with the audience at the beginning of the show and during commercial breaks. She often gives away free prizes and trips to be in her shows studio audience with the help of her sponsors.

DeGeneres celebrated her thirty-year class reunion by flying her graduating class to California to be guests on her show in February 2006. She presented Atlanta High School with a surprise gift of a new electronic Light-emitting diode LED marquee sign. In May 2006, DeGeneres made a surprise appearance at the Tulane University commencement in New Orleans. Following George H. W. Bush and Bill Clinton to the podium, she came out in a bathrobe and furry slippers. "They told me everyone would be wearing robes," she said. Ellen then went on to make another commencement speech at Tulane in 2009.
The show broadcast for a week from Universal Studios Orlando in March 2007. Skits included DeGeneres going on the Hulk Roller Coaster Ride and the Jaws Boat Ride. In May 2007, DeGeneres was placed on bed rest due to a torn ligament in her back.  She continued hosting her show from a hospital bed, tended to by a nurse, explaining "the show must go on, as they say."  Guests sat in hospital beds as well. On May 1, 2009, DeGeneres celebrated her 1000th episode, featuring celebrity guests such as Oprah Winfrey, Justin Timberlake, and Paris Hilton, among others. {{Citation needed date=May 2013}}

File:Ellen DeGeneres (2004).jpg thumb right DeGeneres attending Oprah Winfreys 50th birthday party in Los Angeles, California, in January 2004

On September 9, 2009, it was confirmed that DeGeneres would replace Paula Abdul as a judge of the American Idol (season 9) ninth season of American Idol. Her role started after the contestant auditions, at the beginning of "Hollywood Week".
It is reported that DeGeneres also signed a contract to be a judge on the show for at least five seasons.
She made her American Idol debut on February 9, 2010. However, on July 29, 2010, DeGeneres and Fox executives announced that the comedian would be leaving American Idol after one season. In a statement, DeGeneres said that the series "didnt feel like the right fit for me".
Starting in the 2017–18 United States network television schedule 2017-2018 television season DeGeneres began hosting the game show Ellens Game of Games on NBC which is based, and expands on games played on her talk show. The series had a preview episode on December 18, 2017 with regular episodes beginning the following January.
==Award shows==

DeGeneres received wide exposure on November 4, 2001, when she hosted the televised broadcast of the Emmy Awards. Presented after two cancellations due to network concerns that a lavish ceremony following the September 11 attacks would appear insensitive, the show required a more somber tone that would also allow viewers to temporarily forget the tragedy. DeGeneres received several standing ovations for her performance that evening, which included the line: "What would bug the Taliban more than seeing a gay woman in a suit surrounded by Jews?"
In August 2005, DeGeneres hosted the 57th Primetime Emmy Awards 2005 Primetime Emmy Awards ceremony held on September 18, 2005. This was three weeks after Hurricane Katrina, making it the second time she hosted the Emmys following a national tragedy. She also hosted the Grammy Awards in 1996 and in 1997.

On September 7, 2006, DeGeneres was selected to host the 79th Academy Awards ceremony, which took place on February 25, 2007.
This makes her the first openly gay person to have hosted the event.
During the Awards show, DeGeneres said, "What a wonderful night, such diversity in the room, in a year when theres been so many negative things said about peoples race, religion, and sexual orientation. And I want to put this out there: If there werent blacks, Jews and gays, there would be no Oscars, or anyone named Oscar, when you think about that."
Reviews of her hosting gig were positive, with one saying, "DeGeneres rocked, as she never forgot that she wasnt just there to entertain the Oscar nominees but also to tickle the audience at home."
Regis Philbin said in an interview that "the only complaint was theres not enough Ellen."

DeGeneres was nominated for an Emmy Award as host of the Academy Awards broadcast.
On August 2, 2013, it was announced that DeGeneres would host the Academy Awards on March 2, 2014, for the second time.
A selfie orchestrated by 86th Academy Awards host Ellen DeGeneres during the broadcast is the second-most retweeted Twitter tweet ever.
DeGeneres said she wanted to homage Meryl Streeps record 17 Oscar nominations by setting a new record with her, and invited other Oscar celebrities to join them. The resulting photo of twelve celebrities broke the previous retweet record within forty minutes and was retweeted over 1.8 million times in the first hour.
