Ernest Edward "Ernie" Kovacs (January 23, 1919 – January 13, 1962) was an American comedian, actor, and writer.

Kovacss visually experimental and often spontaneous comedic style influenced numerous television comedy programs for years after his death. Many individuals and shows, such as Johnny Carson, David Letterman, Laugh-In Rowan and Martins Laugh-In, Saturday Night Live, Monty Pythons Flying Circus, Jim Henson, Max Headroom (character) Max Headroom,
Chevy Chase,
Conan O’Brien,
Jimmy Kimmel, Captain Kangaroo, Sesame Street, The Electric Company, Dave Garroway,
Uncle Floyd, and many others
have credited Kovacs as an influence. Chevy Chase thanked Kovacs during his acceptance speech for his Emmy award for Saturday Night Live.
Some of Kovacss unusual behaviors include having pet marmosets and wrestling a jaguar on his live Philadelphia television show.
When working at WABC (AM) as a morning-drive radio announcer and doing a mid-morning television series for NBC, Kovacs claimed to dislike eating breakfast alone while his wife, Edie Adams, was sleeping after her Broadway performances. His solution was to hire a taxi driver to come into their apartment with his own key and make breakfast for them both, then take Kovacs to the WABC studios.
While Kovacs and Adams received Emmy nominations for best performances in a comedy series during 1957, his talent was not recognized formally until after his death.
The 1962 Emmy for Outstanding Electronic Camera Work and the Directors Guild award came a short time after his fatal accident.
A quarter century later, he was inducted into the Television Hall of Fame Academy of Television Arts &amp; Sciences Hall of Fame.
Kovacs also has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for his work in television.
In 1986, the Museum of Broadcasting (later to become the Museum of Television &amp; Radio and now the Paley Center for Media) presented an exhibit of Kovacss work, called The Vision of Ernie Kovacs. The Pulitzer Prize–winning television critic, William Henry III, wrote for the museums booklet: "Kovacs was more than another wide-eyed, self-ingratiating clown. He was televisions first significant video artist."
==Early life and career==
Kovacss father, Andrew, emigrated from Hungary at age 13. He worked as a policeman, restaurateur, and bootlegger; the last so successfully that he moved his wife Mary, and sons Tom and Ernie, into a 20-room mansion in the better part of Trenton.
Though a poor student, Kovacs was influenced by his Trenton Central High School drama teacher, Harold Van Kirk, and received an acting scholarship to the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in 1937 with Van Kirks help. The end of Prohibition and the Depression resulted in difficult financial times for the family. When Kovacs began drama school, all he could afford was a fifth floor walk-up apartment on West 74th Street in New York City.
During this time, he watched many "B movie Grade B" movies; admission was only ten cents. Many of these movies influenced his comedy routines later.
A 1938 local newspaper photograph shows Kovacs as a member of the Prospect Players, not yet wearing his trademark mustache.
Like any aspiring actor, Kovacs used his class vacation time to pursue roles in summer stock companies. While working in Vermont during 1939, he became so seriously ill with pneumonia and pleurisy that his doctors didnt expect him to survive. During the next year and a half, his comedic talents developed as he entertained both doctors and patients with his antics during stays at several hospitals.
While hospitalized, Kovacs developed a lifelong love of classical music by the gift of a radio, which he kept tuned to WFME (AM)#History WQXR. By the time he was released, his parents had separated, and Kovacs went back to Trenton, living with his mother in a two-room apartment over a store. He began work as a cigar salesman, which resulted in a lifelong cigar-smoking habit.
Kovacss first paid entertainment work was during 1941, as an announcer for Trentons radio station WTTM. He spent the next nine years with WTTM, becoming the stations director of Special Events; in this job he did things like trying to see what it was like to be run over by a train (leaving the tracks at the last minute) and broadcasting from the cockpit of a plane for which he took flying lessons. Kovacs was also involved with local theater; a local newspaper published a photograph of him and the news that he was doing some directing for the Trenton Players Guild in early 1941.
The Trentonian, a local weekly newspaper, offered Kovacs a column in June 1945; he named it "Kovacs Unlimited".
==Start in television==
File:Kovacs 3 to get ready 1951.JPG thumb 180px Kovacs and Gertrude on Three to Get Ready, 1951. Gertrude was one of the donations of Kovacss viewers when he asked them to bring anything they no longer wanted to the WPTZ-TV lobby.
File:Ernie Kovacs Andy McKay Kovacs Unlimited 1952.JPG thumb 180px Both Gertrude and Kovacss close associate Andy McKay relocated to New York with Kovacs in 1952. The mask McKay is wearing was fashioned out of masking tape.
Arriving at NBCs Philadelphia affiliate, WPTZ, for an audition wearing a barrel and shorts got Kovacs his first television job in January 1950. His first show was Pick Your Ideal, a fashion and promotional program for the Ideal Manufacturing Company. Before long, Kovacs was also the host of  Deadline For Dinner and Now Youre Cooking, shows featuring advice from local chefs.
{{efn Now KYW-TV; though the current NBC affiliate is WCAU-TV
}} When Kovacss guest chef did not arrive in time for the show, he offered a recipe for "Eggs Scavok" (Kovacs spelled backward).
Hosting these shows soon resulted in his becoming host of a program named Three to Get Ready, named for WPTZs channel 3 spot on television dials.
Premiering in November 1950, Three to Get Ready was innovative, because it was the first regularly scheduled early morning (7–9am) show in a major television market, predating NBCs Today (U.S. TV program) Today by more than a year. Prior to this, it had been assumed that few people would watch television at such an early hour.
While the show was advertised as early morning news and weather, Kovacs provided this and more in an original manner.  When rain was in the weather forecast, Kovacs would get on a ladder and pour water down on the staff member reading the report.
Goats were auditioned for a local theater performance and tiny women appeared to walk up his arm.
Kovacs also went outside of the studio for some of his skits, running through a downtown Philadelphia restaurant in a gorilla suit in one, and looking into a construction pit saying it was deep enough to see to China, when a man in Chinese clothing popped up, said a few words in the language, and ran off.
Despite its popularity, the weekly prop budget for the show was just $15. Kovacs once asked his viewers to send unwanted items to Channel 3; they filled the stations lobby.
The only character no one ever saw inspired more gifts; he was Howard, the Worlds Strongest Ant. From the time of his WPTZ debut, Howard received more than 30,000 gifts from Kovacss viewers, including a mink lined swimming pool.
Kovacs began his Early Eyeball Fraternal &amp; Marching Society (EEFMS) while doing Three to Get Ready. There were membership cards with by-laws and ties; the password was a favorite phrase of Kovacss – "Its Been Real".
