Eugene Boris Mirman
(born July 24, 1974) is a Russian-born American comedian and writer. Mirman is known for playing Yvgeny Mirminsky on Delocated, and voicing Gene Belcher on the animated comedy Bobs Burgers.

==Early life==
Mirman was born in Moscow,
to Jewish parents.  His family emigrated to the United States when he was four and a half years old.
Mirman attended William Diamond Middle School and Lexington High School (Massachusetts) Lexington High School in Lexington, Massachusetts, and Hampshire College in Western Massachusetts. As part of the colleges "choose your own major" program, Mirman graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in comedy, with a one-hour routine as his thesis.
During summers he attended Camp Tohkomeupog in East Madison, NH. He returned to his high school to deliver its 2009 commencement address.
He returned to Hampshire to deliver the 2012 commencement speech as well.
==Career==
===Stand-up career===
In 2004, Mirman released The Absurd Nightclub Comedy of Eugene Mirman, a CD/DVD on Suicide Squeeze Records. The album was voted one of the Best Albums of 2004 by both The A.V. Club and Time Out (company) Time Out New York.  His second album, En Garde, Society was released by Sub Pop in 2006. Three years later, Mirman released another comedy album titled God Is a Twelve-Year-Old Boy with Aspergers which was recorded in Chicago at the Lakeshore Theatre.
In 2012, Mirman released An Evening Of Comedy In A Fake, Underground Laboratory.
Mirman has appeared at the U.S. Comedy Arts Festival in Aspen, Colorado, the Just for Laughs Just for Laughs Festival in Montreal, Bumbershoot, and South by Southwest. He co-produced the weekly standup-variety show Invite Them Up with Bobby Tisdale and Holly Schlesinger, which won a Nightlife Award. He currently produces Pretty Good Friends (formerly Tearing the Veil of Maya) at Union Hall in Park Slope, Brooklyn with Julie Smith, which has been voted the best comedy night in New York City by New York Magazine.

Mirman, much like David Cross and Patton Oswalt, is known to often perform in rock clubs and theaters as opposed to traditional comedy clubs. Often touring the United States, Mirman occasionally opens for the comedy troupe Stella (U.S. TV series) Stella (former members of The State (1993 TV series) The State). He has opened for various bands such as The Shins and toured with Modest Mouse, Yo La Tengo, Gogol Bordello, Andrew Bird, and Cake (band) Cake.  Mirman also toured with Patton Oswalt, Brian Posehn and Maria Bamford on the Comedians of Comedy tour.

He has toured as an opener for Flight of the Conchords and with Andy Kindler and Marc Maron in Stand Uppity.  He plays the character Eugene in the Flight of the Conchords (TV series) Flight of the Conchords HBO television series.

In January 2010, Mirman performed standup on the John Olivers New York Stand Up Show on Comedy Central.
Mirmans Eugene Mirman Comedy Festival has been running since 2008.
On April 10, 2015, Mirman filmed a live stand-up special in Tucson, AZ, directed by Bobcat Goldthwait. The special was released on Netflix in 2015 as Eugene Mirman: Vegan on His Way to the Complain Store.

===Television career===
Mirman has appeared on several TV shows, including Late Night with Conan OBrien, HBOs Flight of the Conchords (TV series) Flight of the Conchords, the BBCs Russell Howards Good News, Comedy Central Presents, Delocated,
Aqua Teen Hunger Force, Comedy Centrals Premium Blend, VH1, Third Watch, Cartoon Networks Home Movies (TV series) Home Movies, Cheap Seats (TV series) Cheap Seats, Lucy, the Daughter of the Devil and more. He also played a spokes-potato on Food Network.

In late 2010, Mirman performed on the Comedy Central show The Benson Interruption.

On February 21, 2011, Mirman appeared on The Colbert Report as a fertility clown.

On April 4, 2013, Mirman provided the voice for Cecil Tunt, multi-millionaire brother of Cheryl/Carol Tunt on FX (TV channel) FXs Archer (TV series) Archer.

On March 13, 2016, Mirman appeared on "Last Week Tonight" as a hacker.

Mirman currently voices the character Gene Belcher on the Fox animated series Bobs Burgers.
Mirman lent his guest voice to a character named Emperor Keith Merman in the Netflix original The Adventures of Puss in Boots.

===Radio and podcasts===
In January 2009, Mirman released a satirical self-help book entitled The Will to Whatevs.
He often appears on StarTalk (podcast) StarTalk Radio, hosted by Neil deGrasse Tyson.
He has also appeared several times on StarTalk (2015 TV series) the TV adaptation.

Mirman guest starred as an "Expert witness" on humorist John Hodgmans podcast Judge John Hodgman.
Mirman appeared on Ken Reid (comedian) Ken Reids TV Guidance Counselor Podcast on April 24, 2015. The episode was recorded live as part of the 2015 Eugene Mirman Comedy Festival in Boston.

Mirman plays a supporting role of Benny the gerbil on the childrens podcast This Podcast Has Fleas in 2017.
==Personal life==
Mirman married his longtime girlfriend Katie Westfall-Tharp on Labor Day 2015.
Together they have a son (born 2016).
==Discography==
* The Absurd Nightclub Comedy of Eugene Mirman (2004)
* Invite Them Up (2005)
* En Garde, Society En Garde, Society! (2006)
* Comedians of Comedy 3" Tour CD (2006)
* God Is a Twelve-Year-Old Boy with Aspergers (2009)
* An Evening of Comedy In a Fake Underground Laboratory  (2012)
* Im Sorry (Youre Welcome) (2015)

==Bibliography==
* The Will to Whatevs (2009)
