Clerow "Flip" Wilson Jr. (December 8, 1933 – November 25, 1998) was an American comedy comedian and actor best known for his television appearances during the late 1960s and the 1970s. From 1970 to 1974, Wilson hosted his own weekly variety series, The Flip Wilson Show. The series earned Wilson a Golden Globe Award Golden Globe and two Emmy Awards, and at one point was the second highest rated show on network television.
Wilson was the first African-American to host a successful variety TV show.
(Sammy Davis Jr. had had a short-lived variety show in 1966). In January 1972, Time (magazine) Time magazine featured Wilsons image on its cover and named him "TVs first black superstar".
Wilson released a number of comedy albums in the 1960s and 70s, and won a Grammy Award for his 1970 album The Devil Made Me Buy This Dress.
After The Flip Wilson Show ended, Wilson kept performing and acting until the 1990s, though at a reduced schedule. He hosted a short-lived revival of People are Funny in 1984, and had the lead role in the 1985-86 sitcom Charlie &amp; Co.

==Early life==
Born Clerow Wilson Jr. in Jersey City, New Jersey, he was one of ten children born to Cornelia Bullock and Clerow Wilson Sr.
His father worked as a handyman but, because of the Great Depression, was often out of work. When Wilson was seven years old, his mother abandoned the family. His father was unable to care for the children alone and he placed many of them in foster homes.
After bouncing from foster homes to reform school, 16-year-old Wilson lied about his age and joined the United States Air Force. His outgoing personality and funny stories made him popular; he was even asked to tour military bases to cheer up other servicemen. Claiming that he was always "flipped out," Wilsons barracks mates gave him the nickname "Flip" which he used as his stage name. Discharged from the Air Force in 1954, Wilson started working as a bellhop in San Franciscos Manor Plaza Hotel.

At the Plazas nightclub, Wilson found extra work playing a drunken patron in between regularly scheduled acts. His inebriated character proved popular and Wilson began performing it in clubs throughout California. At first Wilson would simply ad-lib onstage, but eventually he added written material and his act became more sophisticated.

==Career==
In the late 1950s and early 1960s, Wilson toured regularly through nightclubs with a black clientele in the so-called "Chitlin Circuit".
During the 1960s, Wilson became a regular at the Apollo Theater in Harlem. An unexpected break came in 1965, when comedian Redd Foxx was a guest on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson The Tonight Show and host Johnny Carson asked him who the funniest comedian at the time was; Foxx answered, "Flip Wilson".
Carson then booked Wilson to appear on The Tonight Show, and Wilson became a favorite guest on that show, as well as on The Ed Sullivan Show. Wilson later singled out Sullivan as providing his biggest career boost. Wilson also made guest appearances on numerous TV comedies and variety shows, such as Heres Lucy (in which he played the role of "Prissy" in a spoof of Gone With the Wind (film) Gone With the Wind, with Lucille Ball as Scarlett),
and The Dean Martin Show, among others.  

Wilsons warm and ebullient personality was infectious.  Richard Pryor told Wilson, "Youre the only performer that Ive ever seen who goes on the stage and the audience hopes that you like them."

A routine titled "Columbus," from the 1967 album Cowboys and Colored People, brought Wilson to Hollywood industry attention.  In this bit, Wilson retells the story of Christopher Columbus from an anachronistic urbanized viewpoint, in which Columbus convinces the Spain Spanish monarchs to fund his voyage by noting that discovering America means that he can also discover Ray Charles. Hearing this, Isabella I of Castile Queen "Isabel Johnson," whose voice is an early version of Wilsons eventual "Geraldine" character, says that "Chris" can have "all the money you want, honey—You go find Ray Charles!"  When Columbus departs from the dock, an inebriated Isabella is there, testifying to one and all that "Chris gonna find Ray Charles!" 

In 1970, Wilson won a Grammy Award for his comedy album The Devil Made Me Buy This Dress. He was also a regular cast member on Rowan &amp; Martins Laugh-In. DePatie-Freleng Enterprises featured Wilson in two TV specials, Clerow Wilson and the Miracle of P.S. 14 and Clerow Wilsons Great Escape.

===The Flip Wilson Show===
File:Flip Wilson Geraldine 1971.JPG thumb left Geraldine Jones (character) Geraldine Jones (Flip Wilson) interviews sex expert Dr. David Reuben (author) David Reuben in a sketch from The Flip Wilson Show (1971) 
In 1970 Wilsons variety series, The Flip Wilson Show, debuted on NBC. He performed in comedy sketches and played host to many African-American entertainers, including the Supremes, the Jackson Five, the Temptations, Gladys Knight &amp; the Pips, comedian Redd Foxx, and basketball player Bill Russell. He greeted all his guests with the "Flip Wilson Handshake,": four hand slaps, two elbow bumps finishing with two hip-bumps. George Carlin was one of the shows writers, and Carlin also made frequent appearances on the show, as the two would expand Carlins news-weather-sports satire. Wilsons characters included Reverend Leroy, materialistic pastor of the "Church of What’s Happening Now," and his most popular character, Geraldine Jones (character) Geraldine Jones, who frequently referred to her unseen boyfriend, "Killer," and whose lines "The devil made me do it" as well as "What you see is what you get" became national catchphrases.

The Flip Wilson Show aired through 1974, generating high ratings and popularity among viewers and winning strong critical acclaim, with eleven Emmy Award nominations during its run, winning two. Wilson also won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Television Series Musical or Comedy Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Television Series.

File:Flip Wilson - 1970.jpg thumb 225px Wilson in 1970
===Later years===
Wilson acted in TV and theatrical movies including Uptown Saturday Night and The Fish that Saved Pittsburgh. In 1976, he appeared as the Fox in a television musical adaptation Pinocchio (1976 TV musical) Pinocchio, starring Sandy Duncan in the title role and Danny Kaye as Mister Geppetto, with songs by Laugh-In composer Billy Barnes (composer) Billy Barnes.
From March to July 1984, Wilson hosted a revival of People are Funny. From 1985 to 1986, Wilson played the lead role in the CBS sitcom Charlie &amp; Co. Two of his last TV appearances were cameo appearance cameos on the sitcoms Living Single in 1993, and The Drew Carey Show in 1996.
==Personal life ==
Wilson was married twice. In 1957 he wed Lavenia Wilson née Dean. They divorced in 1967. In 1979 he married Tuanchai MacKenzie. They divorced in 1984. After winning custody of his five children in 1979, Wilson performed less, in order to spend more time with his family.
Before becoming ill, he was an active Aerostat lighter-than-air pilot.
On November 25, 1998, Wilson died of liver cancer in Malibu, California, aged 64.
==Discography==
*1961 – Flippin (Minit 24012)
*1964 – Flip Wilsons Pot Luck (Scepter 520, reissued as Funny and Live at the Village Gate, Springboard SP 4004)
*1967 – Cowboys and Colored People (Atlantic ATS 8149)
*1968 – You Devil You (Atlantic SC 8179)
*1970 – The Devil Made Me Buy This Dress (Little David LD 1000)
*1970 – The Flip Wilson Show (Little David LD 2000)
*Geraldine (Little David LD 1001)
*Flipped Out (Sunset Records SUS-5297)

==In popular culture==
Wilson popularized the phrase "The devil made me do it." Also, the phrase, "What you see is what you get," often used by Wilsons Geraldine character, inspired researchers at PARC (company) PARC and elsewhere to create the acronym WYSIWYG.
==See also==
*{{Portal-inline Biography}}
