Francine Joy Drescher (born September 30, 1957) is an American actress and activist. She is best known for her role as Fran Fine in the hit TV series The Nanny (1993–99), and for her nasal voice and thick New York accent.

Drescher made her screen debut with a small role in the 1977 blockbuster film Saturday Night Fever, and later appeared in American Hot Wax (1978) and Wes Cravens horror tale Stranger in Our House (1978). In the 1980s, she gained recognition as a comedic actress in the films Gorp (film) Gorp (1980), The Hollywood Knights (1980), Doctor Detroit (1983), This Is Spinal Tap (1984), and UHF (film) UHF (1989) while establishing a television career with guest appearances on several series. In 1993, she achieved wider fame as Fran Fine in her own sitcom vehicle The Nanny, for which she was nominated for two Emmy Awards and two Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Television Series Musical or Comedy Golden Globe Awards for Best Actress in a Comedy Television Series during the shows run. She received further recognition for her performances in Jack (1996 film) Jack (1996) and The Beautician and the Beast (1997) and reinforced her position as a leading sitcom star with Living with Fran (2005–2006) and Happily Divorced (2011–2013).
A uterine cancer survivor, Drescher is an outspoken healthcare advocate and LGBT social movements LGBT rights activist, and is noted for her work as a U.S. State Department Public Diplomacy Envoy for Womens Health Issues for the U.S. State Department. Divorced from writer and producer Peter Marc Jacobson, she currently lives in Malibu, California.

On February 4, 2014, Drescher made her Broadway theatre Broadway debut in Cinderella (2013 Broadway production) Cinderella as stepmother Madame.
==Early life==
Drescher was born in Kew Gardens Hills, Queens Kew Gardens Hills, New York,
the daughter of Sylvia, a bridal consultant, and Morty Drescher, a naval systems analyst.
Her family is from Southeast Europe Southeast and Central Europe. Her maternal great-grandmother Yetta was born in Focșani, Romania, and emigrated to the United States,
while her fathers family came from Poland.
She has an older sister, Nadine.  Her family is Jewish.

Drescher was a first runner-up for "Miss New York Teenager" in 1973.
She attended Hillcrest High School (Queens) Hillcrest High School in Jamaica, Queens, where she met her future husband, Peter Marc Jacobson, whom she married in 1978, at age 21. They divorced in 1999.
Jacobson was Dreschers constant supporter in her show-business career, and he wrote, directed, and produced her signature television series, The Nanny. Drescher graduated from Hillcrest High School in 1975; one of her classmates was comedian Ray Romano.
Dreschers character Fran Fine from The Nanny and Romanos character Ray Barone from Everybody Loves Raymond met at a 20th high school reunion on an episode of The Nanny.
Drescher and Jacobson attended Queens College, City University of New York, but dropped out in their first year because "all the acting classes were filled." They then enrolled in cosmetology school.
==Career==

===Early career===
Dreschers first break was a small role as the dancer Connie in the blockbuster movie Saturday Night Fever (1977), in which she delivered the line "So, are you as good in bed as you are on the dance floor?" to John Travoltas character. A year later, she began to gain more attention in films such as American Hot Wax (1978) and Summer of Fear (1978). She also took on a rare dramatic role in the 1981 Miloš Forman film, Ragtime (film) Ragtime.

During the 1980s, Drescher found moderate success as a character actress with memorable roles in films such as Gorp (film) Gorp (1980), The Hollywood Knights (1980), Doctor Detroit (1983), The Big Picture (1989 film) The Big Picture (1989), UHF (film) UHF (1989), Cadillac Man (1990), and memorably in This Is Spinal Tap (1984) as publicist Bobbi Flekman. She also made an appearance in a second-season episode of Whos the Boss? in 1985 as an interior decorator. She also had an appearance on Night Court as a woman with dissociative identity disorder who flips from a prude to a sexually minded woman and ends up in a hotel with ADA Dan Fielding.

In 1990, Drescher appeared as Roxanne, in ALF (TV series) ALF the wife of grown up Brian, who had no clue she was the Mob Boss, in the episode "Futures So Bright I Gotta Wear Shades".

In 1991, Drescher co-starred on the short-lived CBS sitcom Princesses (TV series) Princesses. In the early-to-mid 1990s, she voiced "Peggy" from The P Pals on PBS (the woman with the flower on her hat).

===The Nanny and later film roles===
Drescher and Jacobson created their own television show, The Nanny, in 1993. The show aired on CBS from 1993 to 1999, and Drescher became an instant star. In this sitcom, she played a woman named Fran Fine who casually became the nanny of Margaret ("Maggie") (played by Nicholle Tom), Brighton ("B") (played by Benjamin Salisbury), and Grace ("Gracie") Sheffield (played by Madeline Zima); with her wit and her charm, she endeared herself to their widower father: stuffy, composed, proper British gentleman, and Broadway producer Maxwell Sheffield (Charles Shaughnessy). She reprised her This is Spinal Tap character of Bobbi Flekman, a look-alike for her Fran Fine character, in Season 5, Episode 3 of The Nanny.

Drescher appeared in Jack (1996 film) Jack (1996), directed by Francis Ford Coppola, The Beautician and the Beast (1997) (for which she was also executive producer) and Picking Up the Pieces (film) Picking Up the Pieces (2000) co-starring Woody Allen. She was also the voice of "Pearl" in Shark Bait (2006).

===Return to television===
In the 2000s, Drescher made a return to television both with leading and guest roles. In 2003, Drescher appeared in episodes of the short lived sitcom, Good Morning, Miami as Roberta Diaz. In 2005, she returned with the sitcom Living with Fran, in which she played Fran Reeves, a middle-aged mother of two, living with Riley Martin (Ryan McPartlin), a man half her age and not much older than her son. Former Nanny costar Charles Shaughnessy appeared as her philandering ex-husband, Ted. Living with Fran was cancelled on May 17, 2006, after two seasons.

In 2006, Drescher guest starred in an episode of Law &amp; Order: Criminal Intent; the episode, "The War at Home", aired on US television on November 14, 2006.
She also appeared in an episode of Entourage (U.S. TV series) Entourage and in the same year, gave her voice to the role of a female golem in The Simpsons episode "Treehouse of Horror XVII". In 2007, Drescher appeared in the US version of the Australian improvisational comedy series Thank God Youre Here (U.S. TV series) Thank God Youre Here.

In 2008, Drescher announced that she was developing a new sitcom entitled The New Thirty, also starring Rosie ODonnell. A series about two old high school friends coping with midlife crises, Drescher described the premature plot of the show as "kind of Sex and the City but we aint getting any! Itll probably be more like The Odd Couple (1970 TV series) The Odd Couple."
The sitcom failed to materialize however.
In 2010, Drescher returned to television with her own daytime talk show, The Fran Drescher Tawk Show. While the program debuted to strong ratings, it ended its three-week test run to moderate success, resulting in its shelving.
The following year, the sitcom Happily Divorced, created by Drescher and her ex-husband, Peter Marc Jacobson, was picked up by TV Land for a ten-episode order. It premiered there June 15, 2011.
The show was renewed in July 2011 for a second season of 12 episodes, which aired in spring 2012.  On May 1, 2012, TV Land extended the second season and picked up 12 additional episodes, taking the second season total to 24. The back-order of season two debuted later in 2012. Happily Divorced was cancelled in August 2013.

To promote Happily Divorced, Drescher performed the weddings of three gay couples in New York City using the ministers license she received from the Universal Life Church.
Drescher hand-picked the three couples, all of whom were entrants into "Fran Dreschers Love Is Love Gay Marriage Contest" on Facebook, based on the stories the couples submitted about how they met, why their relationship illustrated that "love is love" and why they wanted to be married by her.
===Broadway===
Drescher made her Broadway theatre Broadway debut on February 4, 2014, in the revival of Richard Rodgers Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II Hammersteins Cinderella (2013 Broadway production) Cinderella.
She replaced Harriet Sansom Harris Harriet Harris as stepmother Madame for a 10-week engagement. She reprised the role during the North American tours engagement in Los Angeles, lasting from March through April 2015.
Dreschers previous stage performances include an off-Broadway production of Nora Ephrons Love, Loss, and What I Wore,  and Camelot (musical) Camelot at the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts Lincoln Center with the New York Philharmonic.
==Personal life==

In January 1985, two armed robbers broke into Drescher and Jacobsons Los Angeles apartment. While one ransacked their home, Drescher and a female friend were raped by the other at gunpoint. Jacobson was also physically attacked, tied up, and forced to witness the entire ordeal. It took Drescher many years to recover, and it took her even longer to tell her story to the press. She was paraphrased as saying in an interview with Larry King that although it was a traumatic experience, she found ways to turn it into something positive. In her book Cancer Schmancer, the actress writes: "My whole life has been about changing negatives into positives." Her rapist, who was on parole at the time of the crime, was returned to prison and given two life sentences.
After separating in 1996, Drescher and Jacobson divorced in 1999. They had no children. Drescher stated, "I would have been able to conceive but not hold on."
