Freddie James Prinze (born Frederick Karl Pruetzel; June 22, 1954 – January 29, 1977) was an American stand-up comedian and actor. Prinze was the star of NBC NBC-TV sitcom Chico and the Man from 1974 until his death in 1977. Prinze is the father of actor Freddie Prinze Jr.

==Early life==
Prinze was born Frederick Karl Pruetzel (German language German spelling: Prützel) in New York City, the son of Edward Karl Pruetzel (1914–1979) and Maria Graniela Pruetzel (1918–1994). His mother was Puerto Rican people Puerto Rican and his father was a Germans German
Lutheran Immigration immigrant who had arrived in the U.S. as a youth in 1934.
Prinze was raised in a mixed neighborhood in Washington Heights, Manhattan Washington Heights, New York City.
When Prinze was a small child, his mother enrolled him in ballet classes to deal with a weight problem. Without telling his parents, Prinze successfully auditioned for the Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School LaGuardia High School of Performing Arts, where he was introduced to drama and continued ballet — and where he discovered his gift for comedy while entertaining crowds in the boys restroom. He dropped out of school in his senior year to become a stand-up comedian.
==Career==
File:Chico and the man.JPG thumb left Prinze (right) with Jack Albertson on Chico and the Man, 1976.
Prinze worked at several comedy clubs in New York City, including The Improv and Catch a Rising Star (comedy clubs) Catch a Rising Star, where he introduced himself to audiences as a "Hunga-rican" (part Hungarian, part Puerto Rican), despite the fact that his father was a German immigrant of no Hungarian ancestry, and his mother was of Puerto Rican ancestry. Prinzes son Freddie, Jr has stated that his father was half German/half Puerto Rican many times. This is also verified by Census records, as well as Prützel/Pruetzel family accounts. For the sake of his budding comedic career, he changed his surname to "Prinze". He chose this name because, according to his friend David Brenner, Prinze originally wanted to be known as the King of comedy but Alan King (comedian) Alan King already had that last name and sobriquet, so he would be the Prince of comedy instead. During 1973, Prinze made his first television appearance on one of the last episodes of Jack Paar Tonite. In December 1973, his biggest break came with an appearance on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson. Prinze was the first young comedian to be asked to have a sit-down chat with Carson on his first appearance. Prinze appeared on and guest-hosted The Tonight Show on several other occasions. He also appeared on The Midnight Special (TV series) The Midnight Special to perform his comic routine.

From September 1974 until his death in January 1977, Prinze starred as Francisco "Chico" Rodriguez in the NBC TV series Chico and the Man with Jack Albertson. The show was an instant hit. Prinze made several appearances on The Dean Martin Celebrity Roasts, most notably the roasts for Sammy Davis Jr. and Muhammad Ali. In 1975, he released a comedy album that was taped live at Mr. Kellys in Chicago titled Looking Good—his catch phrase from Chico and the Man. In 1976, he starred in a television movie made-for-TV movie, The Million Dollar Rip-Off. Prinze had a little-known talent for singing, examples of which could be heard in the background of the title song of the Tony Orlando and Dawn album To Be With You, in his appearances on their variety show, and on rare occasions on his own Situation comedy sitcom. About four months before his death, Prinze had signed a multi-year deal with NBC worth $6 million over five years.
==Personal life==
File:Freddie Prinze Tony Orlando Chico and the Man 1976.JPG thumb right Prinze (right) with Tony Orlando on Chico and the Man, 1976.
Prinze married Katherine (Kathy) Elaine (Barber) Cochran on October 13, 1975, with whom he had one child, son Freddie Prinze Jr., who was born March 8, 1976. Prinze was arrested for driving under the influence of Methaqualone Quaaludes on November 16, 1976. A few weeks later his wife filed for divorce. Prinze had been romantically linked to actress Pam Grier
