Gabriel Weston Kaplan (born March 31, 1945) is an American comedian, actor, poker commentator, and professional poker player.
Kaplan was born in Brooklyn, New York (state) New York. He is best known for his role as Gabe Kotter in the 1970s sitcom, Welcome Back, Kotter. He later became known as a poker player, and as co-host and joint commentator for the series High Stakes Poker on Game Show Network GSN.

==Early life==
Kaplan was born in Brooklyn, New York (state) New York, to a Jewish family.
==Acting career==
As a kid, Kaplan had aspirations of being a Major League Baseball player. However
<!--after two years (OF WHAT?)-->
, he was unable to make the roster of a minor league team and decided to pursue other interests. He began working as a bellhop bellman at a hotel in Lakewood, New Jersey Lakewood, New Jersey. Touring comedians would sometimes perform at the hotel, and Kaplan began to work toward his own career as a stand up comedy stand-up comedian. Gabe honed his standup routine in 1964 in places such as the Cafe Tel Aviv at 250 West 72nd Street, New York City.

Kaplans comedy was successful, and he toured the country with his act based on his childhood experiences in Brooklyn. He appeared five times on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson from May 1973 to December 1974. During that time, he also recorded the comedy album Holes and Mello-Rolls, which included long routines about his high school days, among other topics. The sitcom Welcome Back, Kotter, whose central characters he helped Eric Cohen and Alan Sacks create and whose core format he helped them to develop, was in part based on his comedy act. In the sitcom, Kaplan played Gabe Kotter, who returns as a teacher to the dysfunctional high school where he had been a student. The series ran from 1975–79, and Kaplan bought a home in Palm Springs, California with his earnings.
"Up your nose with a rubber hose!", sanitized from the original album line "Up your hole with a Mello-Roll!", became an unlikely catchphrase from the show. It became so popular that a comedy record by Kaplan, Up Your Nose, was released by Elektra Records. The record, co-written and -produced by Kaplan, dented the Billboard Hot 100 in January 1977, peaking at #93.

From 1976–78 and again in 1981, Kaplan participated in the American Broadcasting Company ABC celebrity athletic competition Battle of the Network Stars. For the first five competitions, Kaplan was the captain of the ABC network team. In the very first competition, Kaplan defeated Robert Conrad, who was participating in the event representing the National Broadcasting Company NBC team as its captain, in a race much to Conrads chagrin. Kaplan, who was 31 at the time, passed Conrad, then 40, with a strong sprint to the finish line, giving ABC television network the win with 175 points. In 1981, Kaplan returned to the competition as the team captain for the NBC side, as he was appearing in the NBC TV show Lewis &amp; Clark (TV series) Lewis &amp; Clark.

File:Marcia Strassman Ron Palillo Gabe Kaplan Welcome Back Kotter 1977.JPG thumb right Kaplan in a scene from Welcome Back Kotter, with Marcia Strassman and Ron Palillo
After Welcome Back, Kotter, Kaplan continued with his stand-up act and was in several movies, including a starring role in Fast Break (film) Fast Break in 1979; and portrayed comic Groucho Marx in a one-man show.

==Poker==

Kaplan became involved in financial markets and poker during his acting career. He made his first appearance at the World Series of Poker in 1978. In 1980, Kaplan was considered one of pokers elite, as he won the main event at Amarillo Slims Super Bowl of Poker and was presented with "a loving cup that was so enormous it made the gaudy gold bracelets given to the winners at the World Series of Poker look understated."
Over the next five years his reputation was solidified as he made the final table at the Super Bowls main event two more times.

In July 2004, he finished third in a World Poker Tour no-limit Texas hold em event, earning more than $250,000. He also finished second in the 2005 World Series of Poker $5,000 Limit Hold Em event, winning $222,515. Kaplan was joint TV commentator for the 1997 and 2002 World Series of Poker WSOP events. In 2007, Kaplan won on NBCs Poker After Dark in the episode "Queens and Kings" after defeating Kristy Gazes heads-up and outlasting Howard Lederer, Ali Nejad, Vanessa Rousso and Annie Duke in a $20,000 buy-in 6 person No-Limit Texas Hold-Em winner-take-all Sit-and-Go.

In the 2007 World Series of Poker Kaplan finished in ninth place in the $50,000 World Championship HORSE 2007 World Series of Poker results#Event 39 event, winning $131,424. As of June 2017, Kaplans total live tournament winnings were reported to be $1,991,248.
His eleven cashes at the WSOP were reported to be $539,159 of those winnings.
Kaplan won again on Poker After Dark during "Cowboys" week that first aired in February 2008 against Chris Ferguson, Andy Bloch, Chau Giang, Hoyt Corkins and Doyle Brunson. Gabe Kaplans Poker After Dark win in the first week of the 2010 season (the "Commentators III" episode) was the greatest comeback in the shows history.
== Later activities ==
Kaplan resumed performing stand-up comedy and worked on adaptations of Welcome Back, Kotter. He still plays poker frequently and became a commentator for poker events and televised poker shows, including the National Heads-Up Poker Championship on NBC,
High Stakes Poker on Game Show Network GSN,
and the Intercontinental Poker Championship on CBS.

In 1995, His name was mentioned in the episode 21 "The PTA Disbands" sixth season of the Simpsons as a substitute teacher in Barts class.

In 2007, he appeared in Zak Penns improvisational comedy, The Grand (film) The Grand, as Seth Schwartzman, father of brother-and-sister poker players. Also in 2007, Kaplan published a book titled Kotters Back: E-mails from a Faded Celebrity to a Bewildered World.
In the book, people react to absurd e-mailed claims by Kaplan, such as that he:
* has slept with more women than Wilt Chamberlain
* is an expert at Hopak Cossack dancing
* thinks hes smart enough to become a member of Mensa International Mensa
* would like NASA to send him into orbit with Jimmy Carter and Julius Erving Dr. J

The book also describes his e-mails:
* to the Athens Olympic Committee offering to light the Olympic torch
* to American Automobile Association AAA (the auto club) about signing up for Alcoholics Anonymous
* to the makers of Metamucil suggesting it feature constipated celebrities in its TV ads
* to the Postmaster General offering to have his picture on a stamp.

In January 2011, GSN announced that Norm Macdonald would replace Kaplan as host of High Stakes Poker.
== Filmography ==

{ class="wikitable"
 -
! colspan=4   Film and Television
 - style="text-align:center;"
! Year !! Title !! Role !! Notes
 -
  1975–79    Welcome Back, Kotter    Welcome Back, Kotter#Gabe Kotter Gabe Kotter    Main role (95 episodes)
 -
  1976    The Love Boat    Stan Nichols    TV movie
 -
  1977    Police Story (1973 TV series) Police Story    Paul Cazenovia    Episode: "One of Our Cops Is Crazy"
 -
  1979    Fast Break (film) Fast Break    David Greene   
 -
  1981    Nobodys Perfekt    Dibley   
 -
  1981    Tulips (film) Tulips    Leland Irving   
 -
  1981–82    Lewis &amp; Clark (TV series) Lewis &amp; Clark    Stewart Lewis    Main role (13 episodes)
 -
  1982    Groucho: A Life in Revue Groucho    Groucho Marx    TV movie
 -
  1984    Murder, She Wrote    Freddy York    Episode: "Birds of a Feather"
 -
  1984    The Hoboken Chicken Emergency    Anthony DePalma    TV movie
 -
  2001    Jack the Dog    Richie   
 -
  2007    The Grand (film) The Grand    Seth Schwartzman   
 }
