Garrett Morris (born February 1, 1937) is an United States American comedian, actor, and singer.
He was part of the original cast of the sketch comedy program Saturday Night Live, appearing from 1975 to 1980. Morris also had a role as Junior "Uncle Junior" King on the sitcom The Jamie Foxx Show, which aired from 1996–2001. Morris had a starring role as Earl Washington on the CBS sitcom 2 Broke Girls, from 2011–2017. He was also known for his role in the sitcom Martin (TV series) Martin as Stan Winters, from 1992–1995, and the movie “Cooleyhigh”.

==Early life and career==
{{BLP unsourced section date=October 2016}}
Morris was born on February 1, 1937 in New Orleans, Louisiana. A church-choir singer from his youth, he trained at the Juilliard School of Music and graduated from Dillard University in 1958. Early in his career, he performed with The Belafonte Folk Singers. He performed in a number of Broadway theatre Broadway musical theater musicals, including Hallelujah, Baby! and Aint Supposed to Die a Natural Death. In 1965, he worked alongside Amiri Baraka, Sun Ra, Albert Ayler and Sonia Sanchez at the Black Arts Movement Black Arts Repertory Theatre/School in Harlem; during this period, the theater was frequently raided and surveilled by the New York City Police Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
He had a small role as a police sergeant in The Anderson Tapes (1971) and was a cast member in the short lived CBS sitcom, Roll Out.  He also appeared as a high school teacher in the 1975 film Cooley High.

Morris also lived in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, where he worked as a postal carrier.{{citation needed date=October 2016}}

==Saturday Night Live==
Morris has appeared in numerous television shows and movies since the early 1970s, but is best known as one of the original cast members of NBCs Saturday Night Live. Periodically on SNL he sang classical music: once a Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart Mozart aria when guest-host Walter Matthau designated him as a "musical guest...in place of the usual crap", and once a Franz Schubert Schubert lied while the titles on the screen purported to express his colleagues displeasure at having to accommodate a misguided request by him. In February 1977, he sang Tchaikovskys None but the Lonely Heart (Tchaikovsky) Nur wer die Sehnsucht kennt barefoot in colorful Caribbean dress while subtitles explained he had just returned from Jamaica where he had picked up a girl by claiming to be Harry Belafonte.

One of Morriss best known characters on SNL was the Dominican baseball player Chico Escuela. Chico spoke only limited and halting English, so the joke centered on his responding to almost any question with his catch phrase: "Baseball... been berra berra good... to me." Another recurring bit, used in the newscast segment "Weekend Update", involved Morris being presented as "President of the New York School for the hard of hearing Hard of Hearing" and assisting the newscaster by shouting the main headlines, in a parody of the then-common practice of providing sign language interpretation in an inset on the screen as an aid to the deaf viewer. According to the book Saturday Night: A Backstage History of Saturday Night Live, Morris was frequently unhappy during his tenure on SNL from 1975–1980, and expressed the opinion that he was usually Typecasting (acting) typecast in stereotypical roles.
