George Burns (born Nathan Birnbaum; January 20, 1896{{spaced ndash}}March 9, 1996) was an American comedian, actor, singer, and writer. He was one of the few entertainers whose career successfully spanned vaudeville, radio, film and television. His arched eyebrow and cigar-smoke punctuation became familiar trademarks for over three quarters of a century. He and his wife, Gracie Allen, appeared on radio, television, and film as the comedy duo Burns and Allen.

When Burns was 79, he had a sudden career revival as an amiable, beloved and unusually active comedy elder statesman in the 1975 film The Sunshine Boys (1975 film) The Sunshine Boys, for which he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. Burns, who became a centenarian in 1996, continued to work until just weeks before his death of cardiac arrest at his home in Beverly Hills.

==Early life==
George Burns was born Nathan Birnbaum on January 20, 1896 in New York City,
the ninth of 12 children born to Hadassah "Dorah" (née Bluth; 1857–1927) and Eliezer Birnbaum (1855–1903), known as Louis or Lippe, Jews Jewish immigrants who had come to the United States from Kolbuszowa, Galicia (Eastern Europe) Galicia.
Burns was a member of the First Roumanian-American Congregation.
His father was a substitute Hazzan cantor at the local synagogue but usually worked as a coat presser. During the influenza epidemic of 1903, Lippe Birnbaum contracted the flu and died at the age of 47. Nattie (as George was then called) went to work to help support the family, shining shoes, running errands and selling newspapers.
When he landed a job as a syrup maker in a local candy shop at age seven, "Nate" as he was known, was "discovered", as he recalled long after:
{{poemquote We were all about the same age, six and seven, and when we were bored making syrup, we used to practice singing harmony in the basement. One day our letter carrier came down to the basement. His name was Lou Farley. Feingold was his real name, but he changed it to Farley. He wanted the whole world to sing harmony. He came down to the basement once to deliver a letter and heard the four of us kids singing harmony. He liked our style, so we sang a couple more songs for him. Then we looked up at the head of the stairs and saw three or four people listening to us and smiling. In fact, they threw down a couple of pennies. So I said to the kids I was working with: no more chocolate syrup. Its show business from now on.

We called ourselves the Pee-Wee Quartet. We started out singing on ferryboats, in saloons, in brothels, and on street corners. Wed put our hats down for donations. Sometimes the customers threw something in the hats. Sometimes they took something out of the hats. Sometimes they took the hats. George Burns}}

Burns was drafted into the United States Army when the U.S. entered World War I in 1917, but he failed the physical because he was extremely nearsighted.{{citation needed date=October 2015}} In order to try to hide his Jewish heritage, he adopted the stage name by which he would be known for the rest of his life. He claimed in a few interviews that the idea of the name originated from the fact that two star major league players (George Burns (first baseman) George H. Burns and George Burns (outfielder) George J. Burns, unrelated) were playing major league baseball at the time. Both men achieved over 2000 major league hits and hold some major league records. Burns also was reported to have taken the name "George" from his brother Izzy (who hated his own name so he changed it to "George"), and the Burns from the Burns Brothers Coal Company (he used to steal coal from their truck).
{{rp 33}}

He normally partnered with a girl, sometimes in an adagio dance routine, sometimes comic patter. Though he had an apparent flair for comedy, he never quite clicked with any of his partners, until he met a young Irish Catholic lady in 1923. "And all of a sudden," he said famously in later years, "the audience realized I had a talent. They were right. I did have a talent—and I was married to her for 38 years."
His first wife was Hannah Siegel (stage name: Hermosa Jose), one of his dance partners. The marriage, never consummated, lasted 26 weeks and happened because her family would not let them go on tour unless they were married. They divorced at the end of the tour.
{{rp 58}}

==Gracie Allen==
{{refimprove section date=August 2017}}
{{Main Gracie Allen}}
File:Burns&amp;Allen1938.jpg thumb Burns, Allen and children just before they sailed for Hawaii in 1938
Gracie Allen Grace Ethel Cecile Rosalie Allen was an American comedian born into an Irish Catholic show-business family and educated at Star of the Sea Convent School in San Francisco, California, in girlhood. She began in vaudeville around 1909, teamed as an Irish-dance act "The Four Colleens" with her sisters, Bessie, Hazel, and Pearl.
{{rp 28}}

While attending secretarial school in Hoboken, New Jersey, in 1923, she met Burns at a vaudeville theater in adjacent Union City, New Jersey Union City.
{{rp 40}} Allen came to call Burns by the nickname Nattie (a diminutive of his real name Nathan), while he called her "Googie".
{{rp 85}}
The two immediately launched a new partnership (Burns and Allen), with Gracie playing the role of the "straight man (stock character) straight man" and George delivering the punchlines as the comedian. Burns knew something was wrong when the audience ignored his jokes but snickered at Gracies questions. Burns cannily flipped the act around: After a Hoboken performance in which they tested the new style for the first time, Burns hunch proved right. Gracie was the better "laugh-getter" with the "illogical logic" that formed her responses to Burns prompting comments or questions.{{citation needed date=April 2014}}

Allens part was known in vaudeville as a "Dumb Dora" act, named after a very early film of the same name that featured a scatterbrained female protagonist, but her "illogical logic" style was several cuts above the Dumb Dora stereotype developed by American cartoonist Chic Young, as was Burns understated straight man. The twosome worked the new style on the road, building a following, as well as a reputation for being a reliable "disappointment act" (one that could fill in for another act on short notice).{{citation needed date=August 2017}}

Burns and Allen were so consistently dependable that vaudeville bookers elevated them to the more secure "standard act" status, and finally to the Palace Theatre, New York Palace Theatre in New York. Burns wrote their early scripts but was rarely credited with being a good comedy writer. He continued to write the act through vaudeville, films, radio, and, finally, television, first by himself, then with his brother Willie and a team of writers. The entire concept of the Burns and Allen characters, however, was one created and developed by Burns.{{citation needed date=October 2015}}

As the team toured in vaudeville, Burns found himself falling in love with Allen, who was engaged to another performer at the time, Benny Ryan. After several attempts to win her over, he finally succeeded after making her cry at a Christmas party. She told him, "Youre the only boy who ever made me cry. And I decided that if you could make me cry, I must really love you."
{{rp 68}}

They were married in Cleveland, Ohio, on January 7, 1926; the interfaith marriage was somewhat daring for those times.
{{rp 64}}

They adopted their daughter, Sandra, in 1934 and son, Ronnie Burns (actor) Ronnie, in 1935.

In later years Burns admitted that he had a very brief affair. Stricken by guilt, he phoned one of his best friends, Jack Benny, and told him about the indiscretion. However, Allen overheard the conversation and Burns quietly bought an expensive centerpiece and diamond ring and nothing more was said. Years later, he discovered that Allen had told one of her friends, Mary Livingstone (Jack Bennys wife), about the episode, finishing with, "You know, I really wish George would cheat on me again; I could use a new centerpiece."
{{rp 305–306}}

After fighting a long battle with heart disease, Allen suffered a fatal heart attack in her home on August 27, 1964, at the age of 69. She was entombed in a mausoleum at Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Glendale Forest Lawn Memorial Park Cemetery.

In his second book, They Still Love Me in Altoona, Burns wrote that he found it impossible to sleep after her death until he decided to sleep in the bed she used during her illness. He visited her grave once a month, professing to talk to her about whatever he was doing at the time, including, he said, trying to decide whether he really should accept the Sunshine Boys role which Jack Benny had to abandon because of his own failing health. He visited the tomb with Ed Bradley during a 60 Minutes interview on November 6, 1988.

==Stage to screen==
Burns and Allen got a start in motion pictures with a series of comic short films in the late 1930s. Their feature credits in the mid- to late-1930s included The Big Broadcast; International House (1933 movie) International House (1933), Six of a Kind (1934), (the latter two films with W.C. Fields), The Big Broadcast of 1936, The Big Broadcast of 1937, A Damsel in Distress (1937 film) A Damsel in Distress (1937) in which they danced step-for-step with Fred Astaire, and College Swing (1938) in which Bob Hope made one of his early film appearances. Honolulu (1939 film) Honolulu would be Burnss last movie for nearly 40 years.

Burns and Allen were indirectly responsible for the Bob Hope and Bing Crosby series of Road to... "Road" pictures. In 1938, William LeBaron, producer and managing director at Paramount Pictures Paramount, had a script prepared by Don Hartman and Frank Butler. It was to star Burns and Allen with Bing Crosby, who was then already an established star of radio, recordings and the movies. The story did not seem to fit the comedy teams style, so LeBaron ordered Hartman and Butler to rewrite the script to fit two male co-stars: Hope and Crosby. The script was titled Road to Singapore, and it made motion picture history when it was released in 1940.

==Radio stars==
{{unreferenced section date=October 2015}}
Burns and Allen first made it to radio as the comedy relief for bandleader Guy Lombardo, which did not always sit well with Lombardos home audience. In his later memoir, The Third Time Around, Burns revealed a college fraternitys protest letter, complaining that they resented their weekly dance parties with their girl friends listening to "Thirty Minutes of the Sweetest Music This Side of Heaven" had to be broken into by the droll vaudeville team.

In time, though, Burns and Allen found their own show and radio audience, first airing on February 15, 1932 and concentrating on their classic stage routines plus sketch comedy in which the Burns and Allen style was woven into different little scenes, not unlike the short films they made in Hollywood. They were also good for a clever publicity stunt, none more so than the hunt for Gracies missing brother, a hunt that included Gracie turning up on other radio shows searching for him as well.

The couple was portrayed at first as younger singles, with Allen the object of both Burns and other cast members affections. Most notably, bandleaders Ray Noble (musician) Ray Noble (known for his phrase, "Gracie, this is the first time weve ever been alone") and Artie Shaw played "love" interests to Gracie. In addition, singer Tony Martin (entertainer) Tony Martin played an unwilling love interest of Gracies, in which Gracie "sexually harassed" him, by threatening to fire him if the romantic interest was not reciprocated.

In time, however, due to slipping ratings and the difficulty of being portrayed as singles in light of the audiences close familiarity with their real-life marriage, the show adapted in the fall of 1941 to present them as the married couple they actually were. For a time, Burns and Allen had a rather distinguished and popular musical director: Artie Shaw, who also appeared as a character in some of the shows sketches. A somewhat different Gracie also marked this era, as the Gracie character could often be found to be mean to George.
<blockquote>
 George: Your mother cut my face out of the picture.
 <br/>
 Gracie: Oh, George, youre being sensitive.
 <br/>
 George: I am not! Look at my face! What happened to it?
 <br/>
 Gracie: I dont know. It looks like you fell on it.
</blockquote>
Or
<blockquote>
 Census Taker: What do you make?
 <br/>
 Gracie: I make cookies and aprons and knit sweaters.
 <br/>
 Census Taker: No, I mean what do you earn?
 <br/>
 Gracie: Georges salary.
</blockquote>
As this format grew stale over the years, Burns and his fellow writers redeveloped the show as a situation comedy in the fall of 1941. The reformat focused on the couples married life and life among various friends, including Elvia Allman as "Tootsie Sagwell," a man-hungry spinster in love with Bill Goodwin, and neighbors, until the characters of Harry and Blanche Morton entered the picture to stay.

Like The Jack Benny Program, the new George Burns &amp; Gracie Allen Show portrayed George and Gracie as entertainers with their own weekly radio show. Goodwin remained, his character as "girl-crazy" as ever, and the music was now handled by Meredith Willson (later to be better known for composing the Broadway musical The Music Man). Willson also played himself on the show as a naive, friendly, girl-shy fellow. The new formats success made it one of the few classic radio comedies to completely re-invent itself and regain major fame.

===Supporting players===
The supporting cast during this phase included Mel Blanc as the melancholy, ironically named "Happy Postman" (his catchphrase was "Remember, keep smiling!"); Bea Benaderet (later Cousin Pearl in The Beverly Hillbillies, Kate Bradley in Petticoat Junction and the voice of Betty Rubble in The Flintstones) and Hal March (later more famous as the host of The $64,000 Question) as neighbors Blanche and Harry Morton; and the various members of Gracies ladies club, the Beverly Hills Uplift Society. One running gag during this period, stretching into the television era, was Burns questionable singing voice, as Gracie lovingly referred to her husband as "Sugar Throat." The show received and maintained a Top 10 rating for the rest of its radio life.

===New network===
In the fall of 1949, after twelve years at NBC, the couple took the show back to its original network CBS, where they had risen to fame from 1932 to 1937. Their good friend Jack Benny reached a negotiating impasse with NBC over the corporation he set up ("Amusement Enterprises") to package his show, the better to put more of his earnings on a capital-gains basis and avoid the 80 percent taxes slapped on very high earners in the World War II period. When CBS executive William S. Paley convinced Benny to move to CBS (Paley, among other things, impressed Benny with his attitude that the performers make the network, not the other way around as NBC chief David Sarnoff reputedly believed), Benny in turn convinced several NBC stars to join him, including Burns and Allen. Thus did CBS reap the benefits when Burns and Allen moved to television in 1950.

===Television===
File:Burns allen 1955.JPG thumb George Burns and Gracie Allen, 1955.
On television, The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show put faces to the radio characters audiences had come to love. A number of significant changes were seen in the show:
*A parade of actors portrayed Harry Morton: Hal March, The Life of Riley alumnus John Brown, veteran movie and television character actor Fred Clark, and future Mister Ed co-star Larry Keating.
* Burns often broke the fourth wall, and chatted with the home audience, telling understated jokes and commenting wryly about what show characters were doing or undoing. In later shows, he would actually turn on a television and watch what the other characters were up to when he was off camera, then return to foil the plot.
* When announcer Bill Goodwin left after the first season, Burns hired announcer Harry Von Zell, a veteran of the Fred Allen and Eddie Cantor radio shows,  to succeed him. Von Zell was cast as the good-natured, easily confused Burns and Allen announcer and buddy. He also became one of the shows running gags, when his involvement in Gracies harebrained ideas would get him fired at least once a week by Burns.
* The first shows were simply a copy of the radio format, complete with lengthy and integrated commercials for sponsor Carnation (trademark) Carnation Evaporated Milk by Goodwin. However, what worked well on radio appeared forced and plodding on television. The show was changed into the now-standard situation comedy format, with the commercials distinct from the plot.
* Midway through the run of the television show the Burns two children, Sandra and Ronnie Burns (actor) Ronald, began to make appearances: Sandy in an occasional voice-over or brief on-air part (often as a telephone operator), and Ronnie in various small roles throughout the 4th and 5th season. Ronnie joined the regular cast in season 6. Typical of the blurred line between reality and fiction in the show, Ronnie played George and Gracies on-air son, showing up in the second episode of season 6 ("Ronnie Arrives") with no explanation offered as to where he had been for the past 5 years of the show. Originally his character was an aspiring dramatic actor who held his parents comedy style in befuddled contempt and deemed it unsuitable to the "serious" drama student. When the shows characters moved back to California in season 7 after spending the prior year in New York City, Ronnies character dropped all apparent acting aspirations and instead enrolled in USC, becoming an inveterate girl chaser.

Burns and Allen also took a cue from Lucille Ball and Desi Arnazs Desilu Productions and formed a company of their own, McCadden Corporation (named after the street on which Burns brother lived), headquartered on the General Service Studio lot in the heart of Hollywood, and set up to film television shows and commercials. Besides their own hit show (which made the transition from a bi-weekly live series to a weekly filmed version in the fall of 1952), the couples company produced such television series as The Bob Cummings Show (subsequently syndicated and rerun as Love That Bob); The Peoples Choice (TV series) The Peoples Choice, starring Jackie Cooper; Mona McCluskey, starring Juliet Prowse; and Mister Ed, starring Alan Young and a talented "talking" horse. Several of their good friend Jack Bennys 1953–55 filmed episodes were also produced by McCadden for CBS.

===The George Burns Show===
File:George burns 2536 (255577319).jpg thumb left Woman with man wearing George Burns body puppet
The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show ran on CBS Television from 1950 to 1958, when Burns at last consented to Allens retirement. The onset of heart trouble in the early 1950s had left her exhausted from full-time work and she had been anxious to stop but couldnt say no to Burns.

Burns attempted to continue the show (for new sponsor Colgate-Palmolive on NBC), but without Allen to provide the classic Gracie-isms, the show expired after a year.

===Wendy and Me===
Burns subsequently created Wendy and Me, a sitcom in which he co-starred with Connie Stevens, Ron Harper (actor) Ron Harper, and J. Pat OMalley. He acted primarily as the narrator, and secondarily as the adviser to Stevens Gracie-like character. The first episode involved the nearly 70-year-old Burns watching his younger neighbors activities with amusement, just as he would watch the Burns and Allen television show while it was unfolding to get a jump on what Gracie was up to in its final two seasons. Again as in the Burns and Allen television show, George frequently broke the fourth wall by commenting directly to viewers. The series only lasted a year. In a promotion, Burns had joked that "Connie Stevens plays Wendy, and I play me."

==The Sunshine Boys==
After Gracies death George immersed himself in work. McCadden Productions co-produced the television series No Time for Sergeants, based on the hit Broadway play; George also produced Juliet Prowses 1965–66 NBC situation comedy, Mona McCluskey. At the same time, he toured the U.S. playing nightclub and theater engagements with such diverse partners as Carol Channing, Dorothy Provine, Jane Russell, Connie Haines, and Berle Davis. He also performed a series of solo concerts, playing university campuses, New Yorks Avery Fisher Hall Philharmonic Hall and winding up a successful season at Carnegie Hall, where he wowed a capacity audience with his show-stopping songs, dances, and jokes.

In 1974, Jack Benny signed to play one of the lead roles in the film version of Neil Simons The Sunshine Boys (1975 film) The Sunshine Boys (Red Skelton was originally the other, but he objected to some of the scripts language). Bennys health had begun to fail, however, and he advised his manager Irving Fein to let longtime friend Burns fill in for him on a series of nightclub dates to which Benny had committed around the U.S.

Burns, who enjoyed working, accepted the job for what would be his first feature film since before World War II. As he recalled years later:
