Graham Elwood (born August 5, 1969) is an United States American comedian, actor, podcaster, and writer.

==Early life==
Born in Stoughton, Wisconsin, Elwood grew up in the Nakoma neighborhood of nearby Madison, Wisconsin Madison. After his parents divorced, he later moved to Evanston, Illinois.
While in Evanston, Elwood went on to captain his Evanston Township High School high schools American football football team as well as played lacrosse. He was also the color announcer for the schools basketball games.
He later graduated from the University of Arizona with a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree, majoring in film. At university he began performing with a sketch comedy theatre group called Comedy Corner and did stand-up for the first time competing in the US College Comedy Competition that was emceed by Judd Apatow.
From there he began bicycling to Laffs Comedy Cafe on a weekly basis to do open mics.
After university, he moved to Chicago where he worked as a waiter at Bella Bacinos pizzeria and began taking classes at The Second City before landing regular road gigs for stand-up.
After a few years on the road, Graham moved to Los Angeles when he turned 25 to pursue television and film.
==Career==
Elwood hosted the Game Show Network original series Cram (game show) Cram
and the USA Network and syndicated game show Strip Poker (game show) Strip Poker. From October 2006, he appeared in a DirecTV testimonial commercial as "Graham - Customer since 01".{{Citation needed date=January 2009}} He co-starred with fellow comedian Doug Benson in The High Road with Doug Benson on the G4 Network and can be seen in Super High Me with Doug Benson. Elwood has made TV appearances on The Late Late Show (CBS TV series) on CBS and The Sarah Silverman Program and The Benson Interruption on Comedy Central.

In 2008, he co-founded and continues to host Comedy Film Nerds with Chris Mancini, a weekly podcast.
Along with his US tours, Elwood has done 5 USO tours to Afghanistan and Iraq to perform for the troops. He has directed "Laffghanistan: Comedy Down Range" a documentary about his experience overseas, entertaining the troops and "Graham Elwood: Live from Afghanistan". Elwood has created "Comics in Combat" to raise money for veterans.
==Discography==
*The Comedians Got A Boo Boo (2009)
*Palm Strike Dance Party (2012)
