The Greg Fitzsimmons Show is a talk radio program hosted by American Stand-up comedy stand-up comic, actor, writer, and television producer, Greg Fitzsimmons. The Greg Fitzsimmons Show is uncensored and featured on Sirius XM Satellite Radio, on Howard Sterns Howard 101.  The radio program was first transmitted in 2006, and continues to be broadcast live on Monday nights at 9pm PST/11:59pm EST.  A rebroadcast of the show is "replayed" throughout the week on Howard 101.

Unlike most shows on Sirius XM Radio, which are broadcast out of Sirius headquarters in New York City, The Greg Fitzsimmons Show is broadcast from Fitzsimmons DogHouse Studios in Venice, Los Angeles Venice Beach, California or at Sirius’ Los Angeles studio in Hollywood, California.
Mike Gibbons (aka "Gibby"),
who is also a comedy writer and television producer, is Fitzsimmons’ sidekick/producer.  Gibbons is a long-time friend of Fitzsimmons, which allows for natural, quick-witted banter between the two men, and occasional disagreements that are hashed out on-air.  The executive producer is Jim McClure (NY), and associate producers are Cori Lahners (CA) and Mike Farese (NY).
The show features interviews with Celebrity celebrities, musical guests and comedians, and listener Phone-in call-ins encouraged throughout the show.  As veteran comedy writers, Fitzsimmons and Gibbons offer a unique perspective on Hollywood and a behind-the-scenes look at the industry.  Their experience and insight provides a notable twist to celebrity interviews.

Some past guests include: Jimmy Kimmel, Ray Romano, Bob Saget, Dave Navarro, Sarah Silverman, Kevin Nealon, Jerry O’Connell, Joe Rogan, Andy Richter, Adam Carolla, Andy Dick, Dave Attell, Daniel Tosh, Judah Friedlander, Patton Oswalt, Doug Benson, Rick Shapiro, Carlos Mencia, Joel McHale, John Henson (comedian) John Henson, Belladonna (actress) Belladonna, Olivia Munn, Dave Koechner, Spike Feresten, Robert Morton (producer) Robert Morton, Mary Lynn Rajskub, Zack Galifianakis, Karen Kilgariff and Robert Schimmel.
==Writing==
From 2003 to 2005, he was a writer/ producer on The Ellen DeGeneres Show
for which he won four Daytime Emmys. He went on to write for Louis C.K.s sitcom Lucky Louie.
He also wrote for the Emmy Awards, Politically Incorrect w/ Bill Maher, Cedric the Entertainer Presents, The Man Show, The Wanda Sykes Show, The Gong Show w/ Dave Attell and The Chelsea Handler Show.

He is currently writing on HBOs Crashing with Pete Holmes.

==Books==
*{{cite book title=Dear Mrs. Fitzsimmons: Tales of Redemption from an Irish Mailbox publisher=Simon &amp; Schuster location=New York year=2010 isbn=1-43918-26-9-8 author=Greg Fitzsimmons.}}
