Harold Allen Ramis {{IPAc-en ˈ r eɪ m ᵻ s}} (November 21, 1944 – February 24, 2014) was an American actor, director, writer, and comedian. His best-known film acting roles were as Egon Spengler in Ghostbusters (1984) and Ghostbusters II (1989) and Russell Ziskey in Stripes (film) Stripes (1981); he also co-wrote those films. As a director, his films include the comedy film comedies Caddyshack (1980), National Lampoons Vacation (1983), Groundhog Day (film) Groundhog Day (1993), and Analyze This (1999). Ramis was the original head writer of the television series Second City Television SCTV, on which he also performed, as well as a co-writer of Groundhog Day and Animal House National Lampoons Animal House (1978). The final film that he wrote, produced, directed and acted in was Year One (film) Year One (2009).

Ramis films influenced subsequent generations of comedians and comedy writers.
Filmmakers including Jay Roach, Jake Kasdan, Adam Sandler, and Farrelly brothers Peter and Bobby Farrelly have cited his films as among their favorites.
Along with Danny Rubin, he won the BAFTA Award for Best Original Screenplay for Groundhog Day.
==Early life==
Ramis was born on November 21, 1944, in Chicago, Illinois,
the son of Ruth (née Cokee) and Nathan Ramis, who owned the Ace Food &amp; Liquor Mart on the citys far North Side.
Ramis had a Jewish upbringing.
In his adult life, he did not practice any religion.
He graduated from Stephen K. Hayt Elementary School in June 1958 and Senn High School Nicholas Senn High School in 1962, both Chicago public schools,
and in 1966 from Washington University in St. Louis Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri,
where he was a member of the Alpha Xi chapter of Zeta Beta Tau fraternity.
Afterward, Ramis worked in a mental institution in St. Louis for seven months. He later said of his time working there that it
{{quote text=...prepared me well for when I went out to Hollywood to work with actors. People laugh when I say that, but it was actually very good training. And not just with actors; it was good training for just living in the world. Its knowing how to deal with people who might be reacting in a way thats connected to anxiety or grief or fear or rage. As a director, youre dealing with that constantly with actors. But if I were a businessman, Id probably be applying those same principles to that line of work.
}}

==Career==

===Early years===
Ramis began writing parody parodic plays in college, saying years later, "In my heart, I felt I was a combination of Groucho Marx Groucho and Harpo Marx, of Groucho using his wit as a weapon against the upper classes, and of Harpos antic charm and the fact that he was oddly sexy—he grabs women, pulls their skirts off, and gets away with it".
He avoided the Vietnam War military draft by taking methamphetamine to fail his draft physical.
Following his work in St. Louis, Ramis returned to Chicago, where by 1968, he was a substitute teacher at schools serving the inner-city Robert Taylor Homes.
He also became associated with the guerrilla television collective TVTV (video collective) TVTV, headed by his college friend Michael Shamberg, and wrote freelance for the Chicago Daily News. "Michael Shamberg, right out of college, had started freelancing for newspapers and got on as a stringer for a local paper, and I thought, Well, if Michael can do that, I can do that. I wrote a spec piece and submitted it to the Chicago Daily News, the Arts &amp; Leisure section, and they started giving me assignments [for] entertainment features."
Additionally, Ramis had begun studying and performing with Chicagos The Second City Second City improvisational comedy troupe.
Ramis newspaper writing led to his becoming joke editor at Playboy Playboy magazine.
