Harry Julius Shearer (born December 23, 1943) is an American actor, voice actor, comedian, writer, musician, radio host, director and producer. Born in Los Angeles, California, Shearer began his career as a child actor. From 1969 to 1976, Shearer was a member of The Credibility Gap, a radio comedy group. Following the breakup of the group, Shearer co-wrote the film Real Life (1979 film) Real Life with Albert Brooks and started writing for Martin Mulls television series Fernwood 2 Night.

Shearer was a cast member on Saturday Night Live between 1979 and 1980, and 1984 and 1985. Shearer co-created, co-wrote and co-starred in the 1984 film This Is Spinal Tap, a satire satirical rockumentary, which became a cult hit. In 1989, he joined the cast of the animated sitcom The Simpsons; he provides voices for characters including Mr. Burns, Waylon Smithers, Principal Skinner, Ned Flanders, Reverend Lovejoy, Kent Brockman, Dr. Hibbert and more. Shearer has appeared in films including A Mighty Wind and The Truman Show, and has directed two, Teddy Bears Picnic (film) Teddy Bears Picnic and The Big Uneasy. He has written three books. Since 1983, Shearer has been the host of the public radio comedy/music program Le Show, incorporating satire, music, and sketch comedy.

Shearer has won a Primetime Emmy Award, has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in the radio category, and has received several other Emmy and Grammy Award nominations. He has been married to singer-songwriter Judith Owen since 1993. He is currently "artist in residence" at Loyola University, New Orleans.
==Early life==
Shearer was born December 23, 1943, in Los Angeles, the son of Dora Warren (née Kohn; d. 2008), a bookkeeper, and Mack Shearer.
His parents were Jewish emigrants from Austria and Poland.
Starting when Shearer was four years old, he had a piano teacher whose daughter worked as a child actress. The piano teacher later decided to make a career change and become a childrens agent, since she knew people in the business through her daughters work. The teacher asked Shearers parents for permission to take him to an audition. Several months later, she called Shearers parents and told them that she had gotten Shearer an audition for the radio show The Jack Benny Program. Shearer received the role when he was seven years old.
He described Jack Benny as "very warm and approachable [...] He was a guy who dug the idea of other people on the show getting laughs, which sort of spoiled me for other people in comedy."
Shearer said in an interview that one person who "took him under his wing" and was one of his best friends during his early days in show business was voice actor Mel Blanc, who voiced many animated characters, including Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck and Barney Rubble.
Shearer made his film debut in the 1953 film Abbott and Costello Go to Mars, in which he had a small part. Later that year, he later appeared in The Robe (film) The Robe.
Throughout his childhood and teenage years he worked in television, film, and radio.
In 1957, Shearer played the precursor to the Eddie Haskell character in the pilot episode of the television series Leave It to Beaver. After the filming, Shearers parents said they did not want him to be a regular in a series. Instead they wanted him to just do occasional work so that he could have a normal childhood. Shearer and his parents made the decision not to accept the role in the series if it was picked up by a television network.
Shearer attended University of California, Los Angeles UCLA as a political science major in the early 1960s and decided to quit show business to become a "serious person".
However, he says this lasted approximately a month, and he joined the staff of the Daily Bruin, UCLAs school newspaper, during his first year.
He was editor of the college humor magazine (Satyr) including the June 1964 parody, Preyboy
He also worked as a newscaster at KRLA, a top 40 radio station in Pasadena, during this period.  According to Shearer, after graduating, he had "a very serious agenda going on, and it was Stay Out of the Draft."
He attended graduate school at Harvard University for one year and worked at the state legislature in Sacramento. In 1967 and 1968, he was a high school teacher, teaching English and social studies. He left teaching following "disagreements with the administration."
From 1969 to 1976, Shearer was a member of The Credibility Gap, a radio comedy group that included David Lander, Richard Beebe and Michael McKean.
The group consisted of "a bunch of newsmen" at KRLA 1110, "the number two station" in Los Angeles.
They wanted to do more than just straight news, so they hired comedians who were talented vocalists. Shearer heard about it from a friend so he brought over a tape to the station and nervously gave it to the receptionist. He found out he was hired that same day. The groups radio show was canceled in 1970 by KRLA and in 1971 by KPPC-FM, so they started performing in various clubs and concert venues.
While at KRLA, Shearer also interviewed Creedence Clearwater Revival for the Pop Chronicles music documentary.
In 1973, Shearer appeared as Jim Houseafire on How Time Flys, an album by The Firesign Theatres David Ossman. The Credibility Gap broke up in 1976 when Lander and McKean left to perform in the sitcom Laverne &amp; Shirley.
Shearer started working with Albert Brooks, producing one of Brooks albums and co-writing the film Real Life (1979 film) Real Life. Shearer also started writing for Martin Mulls television series Fernwood 2 Night.
In the mid-1970s, he started working with Rob Reiner on a pilot for American Broadcasting Company ABC. The show, which starred Christopher Guest, Tom Leopold and McKean, was not picked up.
==Career==

===Saturday Night Live===
In August 1979, Shearer was hired as a writer and cast member on Saturday Night Live, one of the first additions to the cast,
and an unofficial replacement for John Belushi and Dan Aykroyd, who were both leaving the show.
Al Franken recommended Shearer to Saturday Night Live creator Lorne Michaels.
Shearer describes his experience on the show as a "living hell" and "not a real pleasant place to work."
He did not get along well with the other writers and cast members and states that he was not included with the cast in the opening montage (although he was added to the montage for latter episodes of the 1979–80 season) and that Lorne Michaels had told the rest of the cast that he was just a writer.
Michaels left Saturday Night Live at the end of the fifth season, taking the entire cast with him.
Shearer told new executive producer Jean Doumanian that he was "not a fan of Lornes" and offered to stay with the show if he was given the chance to overhaul the program and bring in experienced comedians, like Christopher Guest. However, Doumanian turned him down, so he decided to leave with the rest of the cast.
{{quote box  width=30em  bgcolor=transparent  align=right  halign=left  quote=When I left, Dick [Ebersol] issued a press release, saying "creative differences." And the first person who called me for a comment on it read me that and I blurted out, "Yeah, I was creative and they were different."  salign=right  source=—Harry Shearer
}}
In 1984, while promoting the film This Is Spinal Tap, Shearer, Christopher Guest and Michael McKean performed on Saturday Night Live. All three members were offered the chance to join the show in the 1984–1985 season. Shearer accepted because he was treated well by the producers and he thought the backstage environment had improved
but later stated that he "didnt realize that guests are treated better than the regulars."
Guest also accepted the offer while McKean rejected it, although he would join the cast in 1994. Dick Ebersol, who replaced Lorne Michaels as the shows producer, said that Shearer was "a gifted performer but a pain in the butt. Hes just so demanding on the preciseness of things and hes very, very hard on the working people. Hes just a nightmare-to-deal-with person."
In January 1985, Shearer left the show for good,
partially because he felt he was not being used enough.
Martin Short said Shearer "wanted to be creative and Dick [Ebersol] wanted something else. [...] I think he felt his voice wasnt getting represented on the show. When he wouldnt get that chance, it made him very upset."
===Spinal Tap===
Shearer co-created, co-wrote and co-starred in Rob Reiners 1984 film This Is Spinal Tap.
Shearer, Reiner, Michael McKean and Christopher Guest received a deal to write a first draft of a screenplay for a company called Marble Arch. They decided that the film could not be written and instead filmed a 20-minute demo of what they wanted to do.
It was eventually greenlighted by Norman Lear and Jerry Perenchio at Embassy Pictures.
The film satirizes the wild personal behavior and musical pretensions of hard rock and Heavy metal music heavy metal bands, as well as the hagiography hagiographic tendencies of rockumentary rockumentaries of the time. The three core members of the band Spinal Tap (band) Spinal Tap—David St. Hubbins, Derek Smalls and Nigel Tufnel—were portrayed by McKean, Shearer and Guest respectively. The three actors play their musical instruments and speak with mock English accents throughout the film. There was no script, although there was a written breakdown of most of the scenes, and many of the lines were ad-libbed.
It was filmed in 25 days.
Shearer said in an interview that "The animating impulse was to do rock n roll right. The four of us had been around rock n roll and we were just amazed by how relentlessly the movies got it wrong. Because we were funny people it was going to be a funny film, but we wanted to get it right."
When they tried to sell it to various Hollywood studios, they were told that the film would not work. The group kept saying, "No, this is a story thats pretty familiar to people. Were not introducing them to anything they dont really know," so Shearer thought it would at least have some resonance with the public.
The film was only a modest success upon its initial release but found greater success, and a cult following, after its video release. In 2000, the film was ranked 29th on the American Film Institutes AFIs 100 Years... 100 Laughs list of the top 100 comedy movies in American cinema
and it was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
Shearer, Guest and McKean have since worked on several projects as their Spinal Tap characters. They released three albums: This Is Spinal Tap (album) This Is Spinal Tap (1984), Break Like the Wind (1992) and Back from the Dead (Spinal Tap album) Back From The Dead (2009).
In 1992, Spinal Tap appeared in an episode of The Simpsons called "The Otto Show".
The band has played several concerts, including at Live Earth in London on July 7, 2007. In anticipation of the show, Rob Reiner directed a short film entitled Spinal Tap.
In 2009, the band released Back from the Dead to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the release of the film.
The album features re-recorded versions of songs featured in This Is Spinal Tap and its soundtrack, and five new songs.
The band performed a one date "world tour" at Londons Wembley Arena on June 30, 2009. The Folksmen, a mock band featured in the film A Mighty Wind that is also made up of characters played by Shearer, McKean and Guest – was the opening act for the show.
===The Simpsons===
Shearer is also known for his prolific work as a voice actor on The Simpsons. Matt Groening, the creator of the show, was a fan of Shearers work, while Shearer was a fan of a column Groening used to write.
Shearer was asked if he wanted to be in the series, but he was initially reluctant because he thought the recording sessions would be too much trouble.
He felt voice acting was "not a lot of fun" because traditionally, voice actors record their parts separately.
He was told that the actors would record their lines together
and after three calls, executive producer James L. Brooks managed to convince Shearer to join the cast.
Shearers first impression of The Simpsons was that it was funny. Shearer, who thought it was a "pretty cool" way to work, found it peculiar that the members of the cast were adamant about not being known to the public as the people behind the voices.
Shearer provides voices for Principal Skinner, Kent Brockman, Mr. Burns, Waylon Smithers, Ned Flanders, Reverend Timothy Lovejoy Reverend Lovejoy, Julius Hibbert Dr. Hibbert, Lenny Leonard, Otto Mann, Rainier Wolfcastle, The Itchy &amp; Scratchy Show Scratchy, Kang and Kodos Kang, Dr. Marvin Monroe, Judge Snyder and many others.{{sfn Richmond &amp; Coffman 1997  pp=178–179}} He has described all of his regular characters voices as "easy to slip into. [...] I wouldnt do them if they werent easy."
Shearer modeled Mr. Burnss voice on the two actors Lionel Barrymore and Ronald Reagan.
Shearer says that Burns is the most difficult character for him to voice because it is rough on his vocal cords and he often needs to drink tea and honey to soothe his voice.
He describes Burns as his favorite character, saying he "like[s] Mr. Burns because he is pure evil. A lot of evil people make the mistake of diluting it. Never adulterate your evil."
Shearer is also the voice of Burns assistant Waylon Smithers Smithers, and is able to perform dialogue between the two characters in one take. In the episode "Barts Inner Child", Harry Shearer said "wow" in the voice of Otto, which was then used when Otto was seen jumping on a trampoline.
Ned Flanders had been meant to be just a neighbor that Homer Simpson Homer was jealous of, but because Shearer used "such a sweet voice" for him, Flanders was broadened to become a Christian and a sweet guy that someone would prefer to live next to over Homer.
Dr. Marvin Monroes voice was based on psychiatrist David Viscott.
Monroe has been retired since the The Simpsons (season 7) seventh season because voicing the character strained Shearers throat.
In 2004, Shearer criticized what he perceived as the shows declining quality: "I rate the last three seasons as among the worst, so The Simpsons (season 4) season four looks very good to me now."
Shearer has also been vocal about "The Principal and the Pauper" (The Simpsons (season 9) season nine, 1997) one of the most controversial episodes of The Simpsons. Many fans and critics reacted negatively to the revelation that Principal Seymour Skinner, a recurring character since the first season, was an impostor. The episode has been criticized by both Shearer and Groening. In a 2001 interview, Shearer recalled that after reading the script, he told the writers, "Thats so wrong. Youre taking something that an audience has built eight years or nine years of investment in and just tossed it in the trash can for no good reason, for a story weve done before with other characters. Its so arbitrary and gratuitous, and its disrespectful to the audience."
Due to scheduling and availability conflicts, Shearer decided not to participate in The Simpsons Ride, which opened in 2008, so none of his characters have vocal parts and many do not appear in the ride at all.
In a 2010 interview on The Howard Stern Show, Shearer alluded that the reason he was not part of the ride was because he would not be getting paid for it.
Until 1998, Shearer was paid $30,000 per episode. During a pay dispute in 1998, Fox threatened to replace the six main voice actors with new actors, going as far as preparing for casting of new voices.
