Henry Lawrence Garfield (born February 13, 1961), better known by his stage name Henry Rollins, is an American musician, actor, writer, television and radio host, and comedian.
He hosts a weekly radio show on KCRW, and is a regular columnist for Rolling Stone Australia and was a regular columnist for LA Weekly.
After performing in the short-lived Washington, D.C. band State of Alert in 1980, Rollins fronted the California hardcore punk band Black Flag (band) Black Flag from August 1981 until mid-1986. Following the bands breakup, Rollins established the record label and publishing company 2.13.61 to release his spoken word albums, and formed the Rollins Band, which toured with a number of lineups from 1987 until 2003, and during 2006.

Since Black Flag disbanded, Rollins has hosted numerous radio shows, such as Harmony in My Head on Indie 103, and television shows such as The Henry Rollins Show, MTVs 120 Minutes, and Jackass (TV series) Jackass. He had recurring dramatic roles in the second season of Sons of Anarchy, in the final seasons of the animated series The Legend of Korra as Zaheer (The Legend of Korra) Zaheer, and has also had roles in several films. Rollins has campaigned for various political causes in the United States, including promoting LGBT rights in the United States LGBT rights, World Hunger Relief, the West Memphis Three and an Peace movement end to war in particular.

==Early and personal life==
Rollins was born in Washington, D.C., the only child of Iris and Paul Garfield.
Rollins is of Jewish ancestry through his father. His great-grandfather Henry Luban (born Henach Luban) fled from the East Latvian town of Rēzekne, then part of the Russian Empire, into the United States.
When he was three years old, his parents divorced and he was raised by his mother in Glover Park, an affluent neighborhood of Washington.
As a child and teenager, Rollins was sexually assaulted.
He suffered from depression and low self-esteem.
In the fourth grade, he was diagnosed with hyperactivity and took Methylphenidate Ritalin for several years so that he could focus during school. He attended The Bullis School, then an all-male preparatory school in Potomac, Maryland.
According to Rollins, the Bullis School helped him to develop a sense of discipline and a strong work ethic.
It was at Bullis that he began writing.
In 1987, Rollins said he had not seen his father since he was 18.
Rollins does not have religious or spiritual beliefs, but he does not consider himself an atheist.
He has mostly avoided recreational drugs throughout his life, including alcohol.
Rollins is Voluntary childlessness childless by choice,
and has not been in a romantic relationship since he was in his 20s.
He considers himself a solitary person, and maintains few deep relationships outside of his professional ones.
His closest personal friend is musician Ian MacKaye, the two have been best friends since they met as children in Washington, D.C. and they still call each other every week.
