James Hugh Calum Laurie, {{post-nominals country=GBR size=100 CBE}} ({{IPAc-en ˈ l ɒr i}}; born 11 June 1959) is an English actor, director, musician, comedian, and author.

Laurie first gained recognition for his work as one half of the comedy double act Fry and Laurie with friend and comedy partner Stephen Fry, whom he met through mutual friend Emma Thompson whilst attending Cambridge University, where Laurie was president of the Cambridge Footlights. The duo acted together in a number of projects during the 1980s and 1990s, including the sketch comedy series A Bit of Fry &amp; Laurie and the P. G. Wodehouse adaptation Jeeves and Wooster. Lauries other roles during the period include the period comedy series Blackadder (in which Fry also appeared) and the films Sense and Sensibility (film) Sense and Sensibility, 101 Dalmatians (1996 film) 101 Dalmatians, The Borrowers (1997 film) The Borrowers and Stuart Little (film) Stuart Little.

Laurie portrayed the title character in the U.S. medical drama series House (TV series) House (2004–12) on Fox Broadcasting Company Fox, for which he won a Golden Globe Award. He was listed in the 2011 Guinness World Records as the most watched leading man on television and was one of the highest-paid actors in a television drama, earning £250,000 ($409,000) per episode of House.
Laurie portrayed the antagonist Richard Onslow Roper in the miniseries The Night Manager (miniseries) The Night Manager and Senator Tom James in the HBO sitcom Veep, for which he received Emmy Award nominations. He also played the lead role of forensic psychiatrist Dr. Eldon Chance in the Hulu series Chance (TV series) Chance (2016–17).

Outside acting, Laurie has released two blues albums, Let Them Talk (Hugh Laurie album) Let Them Talk (2011) and Didnt It Rain (Hugh Laurie album) Didnt It Rain (2013), both to favourable reviews, and has authored a novel, The Gun Seller, published in 1996. Among his honours, Laurie has won three Golden Globe Awards, two Screen Actors Guild Awards and has been nominated for ten Primetime Emmy Awards. He received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2016.
He was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2007 New Year Honours and Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2018 New Year Honours, both for services to drama.
Laurie delivered the keynote address at the American Atheists 2018 National Convention.
==Early life==
Image:School House, Dragon School, Oxford.JPG right thumb Dragon School on Bardwell Road in North Oxford

James Hugh Calum Laurie was born on 11 June 1959 in Blackbird Leys,
Oxford, Oxfordshire.
The youngest of four children, he has an older brother named Charles Alexander Lyon Mundell Laurie
and two older sisters named Susan and Janet.
He had a strained relationship with his mother, Patricia (née Laidlaw).
He notes that she was "Presbyterianism Presbyterian by character, by mood"
and that he was "a frustration to her... she didnt like me".
His father, Ran Laurie William George Ranald Mundell "Ran" Laurie, was a physician who won an Olympic Gold medal#Olympic Games gold medal in the coxless pairs (Rowing (sport) rowing) at the 1948 Summer Olympics 1948 London Games.
Lauries mother died from motor neurone disease in Oxfordshire at the age of 73, in 1989, when Laurie was 30. According to Laurie, she endured the disease for two years; and she suffered "painful, plodding paralysis" while being cared for by Lauries father, whom he called "the sweetest man in the whole world".
File:Eton College quadrangle.jpg thumb left 220px alt=A building in the Tudor style with a courtyard in front Eton College, Lauries alma mater

Lauries parents, who were of Scottish people Scottish descent, attended St. Columbas Presbyterian Church of England (now United Reformed Church)
in Oxford.
He notes that "belief in God didnt play a large role in my home, but a certain attitude to life and the living of it did".
He followed this by stating, "Pleasure was something that was treated with great suspicion, pleasure was something that... I was going to say it had to be earned but even the earning of it didnt really work. It was something to this day, I mean, I carry that with me. I find pleasure a difficult thing; I dont know what you do with it, I dont know where to put it."
He later stated, "I dont believe in God, but I have this idea that if there were a God, or destiny of some kind looking down on us, that if he saw you taking anything for granted hed take it away."
Laurie was brought up in Oxford and attended the Dragon School from ages seven to 13 and stated, "I was, in truth, a horrible child. Not much given to things of a bookey nature, I spent a large part of my youth smoking Cigarette Number Six and cheating in French vocabulary tests."
He went on to Eton College, which he describes as "the most private of private schools".
He says he attended Selwyn College, Cambridge "as a result of family tradition" as his father "went to Cambridge and I applied to the same college".
Laurie notes his father had a successful bout as an oarsman at Cambridge and that he was "trying to follow in his fathers footsteps".
He read archaeology and anthropology, specialising in social anthropology.
Like his father, Laurie was an oarsman at school and university.
In 1977, he was a member of the junior coxed pair that won the British national title before representing Britains Youth Team at the 1977 Junior World Rowing Championships. In 1980, Laurie and his rowing partner, J.S. Palmer, were runners-up in the Silver Goblets &amp; Nickalls Challenge Cup Silver Goblets
coxless pairs for Eton Vikings rowing club. Later, Laurie also achieved a Blue (university sport) Blue while taking part in the The Boat Race 1980 1980 Oxford and Cambridge Boat Race.
Cambridge lost that year by five feet.
During this time, Laurie was training for up to eight hours a day and was on course to become an Olympic-standard rower.
Laurie is a member of Leander Club, one of the oldest rowing clubs in the world. He was also a member of the Hermes Club and the Hawks Club.
==Career==
===Acting===
Forced to abandon rowing during a bout of glandular fever (mononucleosis), Laurie joined the Footlights Cambridge Footlights,
the university dramatic club that has produced many well-known actors and comedians. There he met Emma Thompson, with whom he had a romantic relationship; the two remain good friends.
She introduced him to his future comedy partner, Stephen Fry. Laurie, Fry and Thompson later parodied themselves as the University Challenge representatives of "Footlights College, Oxbridge" in "Bambi (Young Ones episode) Bambi", an episode of The Young Ones (TV series) The Young Ones, with the series co-writer Ben Elton completing their team.

In 1980–81, his final year at university, besides rowing, Laurie was president of the Footlights, with Thompson as vice-president. They took their annual revue, The Cellar Tapes, to the Edinburgh Fringe Edinburgh Fringe Festival and won the first Perrier Comedy Award. The revue was written principally by Laurie and Fry, and the cast also included Thompson, Tony Slattery, Paul Shearer and Penny Dwyer. He states that he did not graduate from Cambridge.
The Perrier Award led to a West End transfer for The Cellar Tapes and a television version of the revue, broadcast in May 1982. It resulted in Laurie, Fry and Thompson being selected, along with Ben Elton, Robbie Coltrane and Siobhan Redmond to write and appear in a new sketch comedy show for Granada Television, Alfresco (TV series) Alfresco, which ran for two series.

Fry and Laurie went on to work together on various projects throughout the 1980s and 1990s. Among them were the Blackadder series, written by Ben Elton and Richard Curtis, starring Rowan Atkinson, with Laurie in various roles, including George (Blackadder) Prince George and George (Blackadder) Lieutenant George.
Other projects followed, of which one was their BBC sketch comedy series A Bit of Fry &amp; Laurie; another project was Jeeves and Wooster,
an adaptation of P. G. Wodehouses stories, in which Laurie played Jeevess employer, the amiable twit Bertie Wooster. He and Fry worked together at various charity stage events, such as Hysteria! 1, 2 &amp; 3 and Amnesty Internationals The Secret Policemans Balls The Secret Policemans Third Ball, Comic Relief (charity) Comic Relief TV shows and the variety show Fry and Laurie Host a Christmas Night with the Stars. They collaborated again on the film Peters Friends and came together for a retrospective show in 2010 titled Fry and Laurie Reunited.

Laurie starred in the Thames Television film Letters from a Bomber Pilot (1985) directed by David Hodgson. This was a serious acting role, the film being dramatised from the letters home of Pilot Officer J.R.A. "Bob" Hodgson, a pilot in RAF Bomber Command, who was killed in action in 1943.
Laurie appeared in the music videos for the 1986 single "Experiment IV" by Kate Bush, and the 1992 Annie Lennox single "Walking on Broken Glass" in British Regency period costume alongside John Malkovich.
In 1997 Laurie appeared in the Spice Girls film  Spice World (film) Spice World. In 1998, Laurie had a brief guest-starring role on Friends in "The One with Rosss Wedding".

Lauries later film appearances include Sense and Sensibility (film) Sense and Sensibility (1995), adapted by and starring Emma Thompson; the The Walt Disney Company Disney live-action film 101 Dalmatians (1996 film) 101 Dalmatians (1996), where he played Jasper, one of the bumbling criminals hired to kidnap the puppies; Eltons adaptation of his novel Inconceivable, Maybe Baby (2000 film) Maybe Baby (2000); Girl from Rio; the Flight of the Phoenix (2004 film) 2004 remake of The Flight of the Phoenix, and Stuart Little (film) Stuart Little.

Since 2002, Laurie has appeared in a range of British television dramas, guest-starring that year in two episodes of the first season of the spy thriller series Spooks (TV series) Spooks on BBC One. In 2003, he starred in and also directed ITVs comedy-drama series Fortysomething (UK series) fortysomething (in one episode of which Stephen Fry appears). In 2001, he voiced the character of a bar patron in the Family Guy episode "One If by Clam, Two If by Sea". Laurie voiced the character of Mr. Wolf in the cartoon Preston Pig. He was a panellist on the first episode of QI, alongside Fry as host. In 2004, Laurie guest-starred as a professor in charge of a space probe called Beagle, on The Lenny Henry Show.

Between 2004 and 2012 he starred as the acerbic physician specialising in diagnostic medicine, Gregory House Dr. Gregory House in the popular Fox medical drama House (TV series) House. For his portrayal, Laurie assumed an American accent.
Laurie was in Namibia filming Flight of the Phoenix (2004 film) Flight of the Phoenix and recorded the audition tape for the show in the bathroom of the hotel, the only place he could get enough light.
While working on Flight of the Phoenix, Jacob Vargas operated the camera to shoot Lauries audition tape for House. Lauries American accent was so convincing that executive producer Bryan Singer, who was unaware at the time that Laurie was British, pointed to him as an example of just the kind of compelling American actor he had been looking for.
Laurie also adopted the accent between takes on the set of House,
as well as during script read-throughs, although he used his native accent when directing the House episode "Lockdown (House) Lockdown".
