Jack McBrayer ({{IPAc-en m ə k ˈ b r ɛər}}; born May 27, 1973) is an American actor and comedian, who gained national exposure for his portrayal of characters on Late Night with Conan OBrien and as Kenneth Parcell in 30 Rock, for which he was nominated for Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series at the 61st Primetime Emmy Awards.
During his time at The Walt Disney Company, he has voiced a major character in the 2012 film Wreck-it Ralph and later its Ralph Breaks the Internet: Wreck-It Ralph 2 2018 sequel, as well as recurring characters in Wander Over Yonder, Phineas and Ferb, Puppy Dog Pals, and the American Broadcasting Company ABC sitcom The Middle (TV series) The Middle.

==Personal life==
McBrayer was born in Macon, Georgia, and moved to Conyers, Georgia when he was 15. He studied theater administration at the University of Evansville, Indiana.
From 1995 to 2002 he worked at The Second City and IO Theater in Chicago,
an experience that introduced him to 30 Rock creator Tina Fey and prepared him for his role on her show.
==Career==
McBrayer appeared in over 80 sketches on Late Night with Conan OBrien (2002–04), often lampooning his own Southern United States Southern upbringing by playing stereotypical hillbilly characters. On August 10, 2007 and September 20, 2008 he made cameo appearances on Late Night playing Kenneth Parcell from 30 Rock. During the first appearance, OBrien remarked to him, "I thought you were above this now." McBrayer later reprised his role as Kenneth twice (November 24, 2009 and January 13, 2010) after OBriens switch to The Tonight Show with Conan OBrien The Tonight Show, and appeared on OBriens The Legally Prohibited from Being Funny on Television Tour Legally Prohibited From Being Funny on Television Tour at stops in Eugene, Oregon, Universal City, California (on the Universal Studios lot where OBrien taped Tonight), and the final tour stop in Atlanta, in his home state of Georgia (U.S. state) Georgia.
In 2008, he was featured throughout the video for "Touch My Body (Mariah Carey song) Touch My Body" by Mariah Carey. McBrayer said he accidentally hit Carey in the face with a Frisbee during the shooting for the video.
