John Herbert Gleason (February 26, 1916{{snds}}June 24, 1987) was an American comedian, actor, writer, composer and conductor.
Developing a style and characters from growing up in Brooklyn, New York, he was known for his brash visual and verbal comedy, exemplified by his bus driver Ralph Kramden character in the television series The Honeymooners. By filming the episodes with Electronicams, Gleason was later able to release the series in syndication, which increased its popularity over the years with new audiences. He also developed The Jackie Gleason Show, which maintained high ratings from the mid-1950s through 1970. After originating in New York City, filming moved to Miami, Florida, in 1964 after Gleason took up permanent residence there.

Among his notable film roles were Minnesota Fats in the 1961 Academy Award-winning drama The Hustler (film) The Hustler (co-starring with Paul Newman), and Buford T. Justice in the Smokey and the Bandit series from 1977 into the early 1980s (co-starring  Burt Reynolds).

Throughout the 1950s and 1960s Gleason enjoyed a prominent secondary music career, producing a series of best-selling "Beautiful music mood music" albums. His first album, Music for Lovers Only, still holds the record for the longest stay on the Billboard Top Ten Charts (153 weeks), and his first 10 albums sold over a million copies each.
To date his output spans some 20-plus singles, nearly 60 long-playing record albums, and over 40 CDs.

==Early life==
John Herbert Gleason was born in 1916 at 364 Chauncey Street in the Stuyvesant Heights, now Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn.
Named Herbert Walton Gleason, Jr., at birth, he was baptized John Herbert Gleason, and
grew up at 328 Chauncey (an address he later used for Ralph and Alice Kramden on The Honeymooners).
His parents were Herbert Walton "Herb" Gleason, an Irish-American insurance auditor, and Mae "Maisie" (Maiden and married names née Kelly), originally of Farranree, Cork (city) Cork,
Ireland.
Gleason was one of two children; his brother Clement J. died of meningitis at age 14.
Gleason remembered Clement and his father having a "beautiful handwriting". He used to watch his father work at the familys kitchen table, writing insurance policies in the evenings. On the night of December 14, 1925, Gleasons father disposed of any family photos in which he appeared; just after noon on December 15, he collected his hat, coat, and paycheck, and permanently left his family and job at the insurance company. Once it became evident that he was not coming back, Mae went to work as a subway attendant for the Brooklyn–Manhattan Transit Corporation (BMT).
