Jacques Tati ({{IPA-fr tati lang}}; born Jacques Tatischeff, {{IPA-fr tatiʃɛf pron}}; 9 October 1907 – 5 November 1982)
was a French filmmaker, actor, and screenwriter. Throughout his long career, he worked as a comic actor, writer, and director. In a poll conducted by Entertainment Weekly of the Greatest Movie Directors, Tati was voted the 46th greatest of all time. With only six feature-length films to his credit as director, he directed fewer films than any other director on this list of 50.

Tatis Playtime (1967) ranked 43rd in the 2012 Sight &amp; Sound critics poll of the greatest films ever made.
As David Bellos puts it, "Tati, from lEcole des facteurs to Playtime, is the epitome of what an auteur is (in film theory) supposed to be: the controlling mind behind a vision of the world on film".
==Family origins==
Jacques Tati was of Russian, Dutch, and Italian ancestry.  His father, George Emmanuel Tatischeff, born in 1875 in Paris (d. 1957), was the son of Dmitry Tatishchev (Дмитрий Татищев), General of the Imperial Russian Army and military attaché to the Russian Embassy in Paris. The Tatischeffs (also spelled Tatishchev) were a Russian noble family of patrilineal Rurikid descent.  Whilst stationed in Paris Dmitri Tatischeff married a French woman, Rose Anathalie Alinquant. (Russian sources indicate that she was a circus performer and that they never married.)
Under suspicious circumstances Dmitri Tatischeff died from injuries sustained in a horse-riding accident shortly after the birth of George Emmanuel. As a child George Emmanuel experienced turbulent times, such as being forcibly removed from France and taken to Russia to live. In 1883 his mother brought him back to France where they settled on the estate of Le Pecq, near Saint-Germain-en-Laye on the outskirts of Paris.
In 1903, Georges-Emmanuel Tatischeff married the Dutch-Italian Marcelle Claire van Hoof (d. 1968). Together they had two children, Natalie (b. 1905) and Jacques.  Claires Dutch father, a friend of van Gogh, whose clients included Toulouse-Lautrec,
was the owner of a prestigious picture-framing company near the Place Vendôme in Paris, and he brought Georges-Emmanuel into the family business. Subsequently, Georges-Emmanuel became the director of the company Cadres Van Hoof, and the Tatischeff family enjoyed a relatively high standard of living.
==Early life==
Jacques Tatischeff appears to have been an indifferent student, yet excelled in the sports of tennis and horse riding. He left school in 1923 at the age of 16 to take up an apprenticeship in the family business, where he was trained as a picture framer by his grandfather. Between 1927 and 1928 he completed his military national service at Saint-Germain-en-Laye with the Cavalrys 16th Regiment of Dragoons.
Upon graduating the military he took on an internship in London where he was first introduced to the sport of Rugby football rugby. Returning to Paris, he joined the semi-professional rugby team Racing Club de France, whose captain was Alfred Sauvy and whose supporters included Tristan Bernard. It was at the Racing Club de France that Jacques Tatischeff first discovered his comic talents, entertaining his teammates during intervals with hilarious impersonations of their sporting endeavours. He also first met Jacques Broido, and they would become lifelong friends.
Between 1931 and 1932 the Great Depression in France global economic crisis reached France
at the same time he left both the Racing Club de France and, to his familys disapproval, his apprenticeship at Cadres Van Hoof. Giving up a relatively comfortable middle-class lifestyle for one of a struggling performing artist during this difficult economic time, he developed a collection of highly physical mimes that would become his Impressions Sportives (Sporting Impressions). Each year from 1931 to 1934 he would participate in an amateur show organised by Alfred Sauvy.
==Career==
===Early work===
Although he had likely played music hall engagements before, his act was first mentioned in 1935, when he performed at the gala for the newspaper Le Journal to celebrate the French victory in the competition to set the transatlantic crossing record from Normandy. Among the honourable spectators was the influential writer Colette. Tatis act also caught the attention of Max Trebor, who offered him an engagement at the Theatre-Michel, where he quickly became the star act. After his success there, Tati tried to make it in London, playing a short season at the Finsbury Park Empire in March 1936. Upon his return to Paris in the same year, he was immediately hired as top billing at the ABC Théâtre
alongside the singer Marie Dubas, where he would work uninterrupted until the outbreak of the Second World War.
It was for Tatis performances of his now finely tuned Impressions Sportives at the ABC that the previously impressed Colette wrote,
<blockquote>
 "From now on no celebration, no artistic or acrobatic spectacle can do without this amazing performer, who has invented something quite his own...His act is partly ballet and partly sport, partly satire and partly a charade. He has devised a way of being both the player, the ball and the tennis racquet, of being simultaneously the football and the goalkeeper, the boxer and his opponent, the bicycle and the cyclist. Without any props, he conjures up his accessories and his partners. He has suggestive powers of all great artists. How gratifying it was to see the audiences warm reaction! Tatis success says a lot about the sophistication of the allegedly "uncouth" public, about its taste for novelty and its appreciation of style. Jacques Tati, the horse and rider conjured, will show all of Paris the living image of that legendary creature, the centaur."
</blockquote>
During the 1930s he also performed at the Scala (Berlin) Scala in Berlin between 1937 and 1938, and began to experiment with film acting in the following shorts:

*1932 : Oscar, champion de tennis directed by Jack Forrester (director) Jack Forrester written by and starring Jacques Tati (film lost);
*1934 : On demande une brute directed by Charles Barrois (b.1890) Charles Barrois, with Jacques Tati as (Roger), Enrico Sprocani as le clown Rhum (Enrico);
*1935 : Gai dimanche directed by Jacques Berr, wrote and starring Jacques Tati and Enrico Sprocani; and
*1936 : Soigne ton gauche directed by René Clément, starring Jacques Tati (Roger), Jacques Broido (sparring partner), Max Martel (the postman).

===World War II===
In September 1939 Tati was conscripted back into his 16th Regiment of Dragoons which was then incorporated into the 3rd Division Legere de Cavalerie (DLC). He saw action in the Battle of Sedan (1940) Battle of Sedan, in May 1940, when the German Army marched through the Ardennes into northern France. The 3rd DLC retreated from Meuse to Mussidan in the Dordogne where the division was demobilised after the Second Armistice at Compiègne Armistice was declared on 22 June 1940.

Returning to Paris, Tati resumed his civilian profession as a cabaret performer, finding employment at Léon Volterras Lido de Paris, where he performed his Sporting Impressions from 1940 to 1942.

Considered as a possible substitute for Jean-Louis Barrault in Les Enfants du Paradis, he played the ghost in Sylvie and the Ghost (Sylvie et le fantôme) (Claude Autant-Lara appeared as Sylvie) and also appeared as The Devil in the same film.  Here he met Fred Orain, studio director of St. Maurice and the Victorine Studios Victorine in Nice.

===Jacques Tati, director===
In early 1946 Jacques Tati and Fred Orain founded the production company Cady-Films, which would produce Tatis first three films.

With the exception of his first and last films, Tati played the gauche and socially inept lead character, Monsieur Hulot. With his trademark raincoat, umbrella and pipe, Hulot is among the most memorable comic characters in cinema. Several themes recur in Tatis work, most notably in Mon Oncle, Play Time and Trafic. They include Western societys obsession with material goods, particularly American-style consumerism, the pressure-cooker environment of modern society, the superficiality of relationships among Frances various social classes, and the cold and often impractical nature of space-age technology and design.

==="LÉcole des facteurs" ("The School for Postmen")===
René Clément was first approached to direct "LÉcole des facteurs", but as he was preoccupied directing La Bataille du rail, directing duties fell to Tati, who would also star in this short comedy of rural life. Encouragingly, LÉcole des facteurs was enthusiastically well received upon release, winning the Max Linder Prize for film comedy in 1947.

===Jour de fête (The Big Day)===
Tatis first major feature, Jour de fête (The Big Day), is about an inept rural village postman who interrupts his duties to inspect the traveling fair that has come to town. Influenced by too much wine and a documentary on the rapidity of the American postal service, he goes to hilarious lengths to speed his mail deliveries aboard his bicycle. Tati filmed it in 1947 in the village of Sainte-Sévère-sur-Indre where he had found refuge during the war. Due to the reluctance of French distributors, Jour de fête was first successfully released in London in March 1949 before obtaining a French release on 4 July 1949, where it became a great public success, receiving the 1950 Le Grand prix du cinéma français. The film was intended to be the first French feature film shot in colour; Tati simultaneously shot the film in black and white as an insurance policy. The newly developed Thomson colour system proved impractical, as it could not deliver colour prints. Jour de fête was therefore released only in black and white. Unlike his later films, it has many scenes with dialogue, and offers a droll, affectionate view of life in rural France. The colour version was restored by his younger daughter, film editor and director Sophie Tatischeff, and released in 1995. The film won the Prize for Best Original Script at the Venice Film Festival.

===Les Vacances de Monsieur Hulot (Monsieur Hulots Holiday)===
Tatis second film, Les Vacances de Monsieur Hulot (Monsieur Hulots Holiday), was released in 1953. Les Vacances introduced the character of Mr. Hulot and follows his adventures in France during the mandatory August vacation at a beach resort, lampooning several hidebound elements of French political and social classes. It was shot almost entirely in the tiny west-coast seaside village of Saint-Marc-sur-Mer in the Loire Atlantique region. The hotel in which Mr. Hulot stays (lHôtel de la Plage) is still there,
and a statue memorialising the director has been erected on the beach.
Tati had fallen in love with the coast while staying in nearby Port Charlotte with his friends, Mr. and Mrs. Lemoine, before the war, and resolved to return one day to make a film there.
The film was widely praised by critics, and earned Tati an Academy Awards Academy Award nomination for Academy Award for Writing Original Screenplay Best Original Screenplay, which was shared with Henri Marquet. Production of the movie would also see the reintroduction of Jacques Lagrange into Tatis life, beginning a lifelong working partnership with the painter, who would become his set designer. Les Vacances de Monsieur Hulot remains one of the best-loved French films of that period. The films comic influence has extended well beyond France and can be found as recently as 2007 in the Rowan Atkinson comic vehicle Mr. Beans Holiday.
André Bazin, founder of the influential journal Cahiers du cinéma, wrote in his 1957 essay, "Fifteen Years of French Cinema", that,
<blockquote>
 "Tati could easily have made lots of money with sequels featuring his comic character of the little rural mailman. He chose instead to wait for four years, and, after much reflection, he revised his formula completely. The result this time was an extraordinary masterpiece about which one can say, I think, that it is the most radical innovation in comic cinema since the Marx Brothers: I am referring, of course, to Les Vacances de M. Hulot."
</blockquote>
Various problems would delay the release of Tatis follow-up to his international hit. In 1955 he suffered a serious car accident that physically impaired his left hand. Then a dispute with Fred Orain ensued and Tati broke away from Cady Films to create his own production company, Spectra Films, in 1956.

===Mon Oncle (My Uncle)===
Tatis next film, 1958s Mon Oncle (My Uncle), was his first film to be released in colour. The plot centers on Mr. Hulots comedic, quixotic and childlike struggle with postwar Frances obsession with modernity and American-style consumerism, entwined with the relationship he has with his nine-year-old nephew Gérard. Mon Oncle quickly became an international success, and won that years Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, a Jury Prize (Cannes Festival) Special Prize at Cannes Film Festival Cannes, as well as the New York Film Critics Circle Awards New York Film Critics Award. In Place de la Pelouse (Saint-Maur-des-Fossés) stands a bronze statue of Tati as Monsieur Hulot talking to a boy, in a pose echoing the movies poster designed by Pierre Étaix.
On receiving his Oscar, Tati was offered any treat that the Academy could bestow on him. To their surprise, Tati simply requested the opportunity to visit Stan Laurel, Mack Sennett and Buster Keaton at their nursing homes. Keaton reportedly said that Tatis work with sound had carried on the true tradition of silent cinema.
As guest artistic director at American Film Institute AFI FEST 2010, David Lynch selected Tatis Mon Oncle alongside Hour of the Wolf (Dir Ingmar Bergman), Lolita (1962 film) Lolita (Dir Stanley Kubrick), Rear Window (Dir Alfred Hitchcock) and Sunset Boulevard (film) Sunset Boulevard (Dir Billy Wilder) to be screened in his sidebar program, explaining that,
<blockquote>
 "I picked these particular films because they are the ones that have inspired me most. I think each is a masterpiece."
</blockquote>
Of Tati, Lynch would add in a conversation with Jonathan Rosenbaum, "You know, I feel like in a way hes a kindred soul... That guy is so creative, its unbelievable. I think hes one of the all-time greats."
