}}

James Kimberley Corden
{{postnom country=UK OBE}} (born 22 August 1978)
is an English actor, writer, producer, comedian, television host, and singer. He hosts The Late Late Show with James Corden, a late-night television talk show on CBS.

Along with Welsh actress Ruth Jones, Corden co-created, co-wrote and starred in the critically acclaimed BBC sitcom Gavin &amp; Stacey (2007–2010) for which he won the British Academy Television Awards BAFTA Television Award for British Academy Television Award for Best Comedy Performance Best Comedy Performance. He was featured on the UK No.1 single "Shout (Shout for England song) Shout", along with Grime (music) grime artist Dizzee Rascal, an unofficial anthem of the England football team for the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa, and duetted with Australian singer Kylie Minogue on a cover of "Only You (Yazoo song)#Kylie Minogue version Only You" in 2015. Appearing on the UK charity telethon Comic Relief in 2011, Corden created his Carpool Karaoke sketch when he drove around London singing songs with George Michael. Since 2009, Corden has presented the Brit Awards ceremony five times, four by himself and once with Minogue and Mathew Horne. In 2016, he hosted the 70th Tony Awards; he went on to host the Grammy Awards in 59th Annual Grammy Awards 2017 and 60th Annual Grammy Awards 2018. He has presented the sports-based comedy Panel discussion panel show A League of Their Own (UK game show) A League of Their Own on Sky 1 since 2010.

In 2011, he played the lead part in the comedy play One Man, Two Guvnors, which transferred from the Royal National Theatre National Theatre to the West End theatre West End and then to Broadway theatre Broadway and was also cinecast worldwide via National Theatre Live. For his performance in the Broadway run of the play, Corden won the 66th Tony Awards Tony Award for Tony Award for Best Performance by a Leading Actor in a Play Best Actor in a Play.
In 2015 he received the BAFTA Britannia Awards Britannia Award for British Artist of the Year.
==Early life==
Corden was born in Hillingdon, Greater London, the son of Margaret and Malcolm Corden. His father was a musician in the Royal Air Force band and his mother was a social worker.
He grew up in Hazlemere, Buckinghamshire,
and attended Park Middle School and Holmer Green Senior School Holmer Green Upper School.
