Jerome Allen Seinfeld ({{IPAc-en ˈ s aɪ n f ɛ l d}} {{respell SYNE feld}}; born April 29, 1954)
<!--birth date appears in archived version only-->
is an American  stand-up comedian, actor, writer, producer, and director. He is known for playing Jerry Seinfeld (character) himself in the sitcom Seinfeld, which he created and wrote with Larry David. As a stand-up comedian, Seinfeld specializes in observational comedy; in 2005, Comedy Central named Seinfeld the "12th Greatest Stand-up Comedian of All Time."
Seinfeld produced, co-wrote and starred in the 2007 film Bee Movie. In 2010, he premiered a reality series called The Marriage Ref (U.S. TV series) The Marriage Ref, which aired for two seasons on NBC. He is the creator and host of the web series Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee.

==Early life==
Seinfeld was born in Brooklyn, New York City.
His father, Kalman Seinfeld (1918–85)
was of Hungarian Jewish descent, and collected jokes that he heard while serving in World War II.
His mother, Betty (née Hosni;
1915–2014),
was of Syrian Jewish descent; her parents, Selim and Salha Hosni,
were from Aleppo.
Seinfeld grew up in Massapequa, New York Massapequa, New York, and attended Massapequa High School on Long Island.
At the age of 16, he spent time Kibbutz volunteer volunteering in Kibbutz Saar in Israel.
He attended State University of New York at Oswego, transferring after his second year to Queens College, City University of New York, graduating with a degree in communications and theater.
<!--Syracuse.com unable to be archived at Wayback Machine or Webcitation-->
==Career==

===Early career===
Seinfeld developed an interest in standup comedy after brief stints in college productions.
In 1976, after graduation from Queens College, he tried out at an open-mic night at New York Citys Catch a Rising Star (comedy clubs) Catch a Rising Star, which led to an appearance in a Rodney Dangerfield HBO special.
Seinfeld appeared on open-mic nights at Budd Friedmans Improv Club while attending Queens College. In 1980, he had a small recurring role on the sitcom Benson (TV series) Benson, playing Frankie, a mail-delivery boy who had comedy routines that no one wanted to hear. Seinfeld was abruptly fired from the show due to creative differences.
Seinfeld has said that he was not actually told he had been fired until he turned up for the read-through session for an episode and found that there was no script for him.
In May 1981, Seinfeld made a successful appearance on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson, impressing Johnny Carson Carson and the audience and leading to frequent appearances on that show and others, including Late Night with David Letterman.
On September 5, 1987 his first one-hour special Stand-Up Confidential aired live on HBO.

===Seinfeld===
{{Main Seinfeld}}
File:Jerry Seinfeld 1992.jpg thumb 150px Seinfeld at the 44th Emmy Awards in 1992
Seinfeld created The Seinfeld Chronicles with Larry David in 1988 for NBC. The show was later renamed Seinfeld to avoid confusion with the short-lived teen sitcom The Marshall Chronicles. By its fourth season, it had become the most popular and successful sitcom on American television. The final episode aired in 1998, and the show has been a popular Television syndication syndicated re-run.

Along with Seinfeld, the show starred Saturday Night Live veteran Julia Louis-Dreyfus and experienced actors Michael Richards and Jason Alexander. Alexander played George, a caricature of Larry David. Seinfeld is the only actor to appear in every episode of the show.
Seinfeld has said that his show was influenced by the 1950s sitcom The Abbott and Costello Show. In the "Seinfeld Season 6" DVD set, commenting on the episode "The Gymnast", Seinfeld cited Jean Shepherd as an influence, saying, "He really formed my entire comedic sensibility—I learned how to do comedy from Jean Shepherd."

From 2004 to 2007, the former Seinfeld cast and crew recorded audio commentaries for episodes of the DVD releases of the show. Seinfeld provided commentary for multiple episodes.

===Post-Seinfeld===
After he ended his sitcom, Seinfeld returned to New York City to make a comeback with his stand-up comedy rather than stay in Los Angeles and continue his acting career. In 1998 he went on tour and recorded a comedy special, titled Im Telling You for the Last Time. The process of developing and performing new material at clubs around the world was chronicled in a 2002 documentary, Comedian (film) Comedian, which also featured fellow comic Orny Adams and was directed by Christian Charles. Seinfeld has written several books, mostly archives of past routines.

In the late 1990s, Apple Computer came up with the advertising slogan "Think different" and produced a 60-second commercial to promote the slogan. This commercial showed people who were able to "think differently", such as Albert Einstein, Mahatma Gandhi, Martin Luther King, Jr., and many others. It was later cut short to 30 seconds and altered such that Seinfeld was included at the end, whereas he had not been in the original cut. This shorter version of the commercial aired only once, during the The Finale (Seinfeld) series finale of Seinfeld.
File:Jerry Seinfeld (1997).jpg thumb upright right Seinfeld at the 1996 Emmy Awards In 2004 Seinfeld appeared in two commercial webisodes promoting American Express, titled The Adventures of Seinfeld &amp; Superman.
In these, Seinfeld appeared with a cartoon rendering of Superman, who was referenced in numerous episodes of Seinfeld as Seinfelds hero, voiced by Patrick Warburton (character David Puddy on Seinfeld). The webisodes were directed by Barry Levinson and aired briefly on television. Seinfeld and "Superman" were also interviewed by Matt Lauer in a specially recorded interview for the Today (NBC program) Today show.

On November 18, 2004, Seinfeld appeared at the National Museum of American History to donate the "puffy shirt" he wore in the Seinfeld episode The Puffy Shirt of the same name. He also gave a speech when presenting the "puffy shirt", saying humorously that "This is the most embarrassing moment of my life."{{cn date=April 2018}}

On May 13, 2006, Seinfeld had a cameo appearance on Saturday Night Live as host Julia Louis-Dreyfus assassin. Louis-Dreyfus in her opening monologue mentioned the "Seinfeld curse." While talking about how ridiculous the "curse" was, a Stage lighting instrument stage light suddenly fell next to her. The camera moved to a Catwalk (theater) catwalk above the stage where Seinfeld was standing, holding a large pair of bolt cutters. He angrily muttered, "Damn it!" upset that it did not hit her. Louis-Dreyfus continued to say that she is indeed not cursed.

On February 25, 2007, Seinfeld appeared at the 79th Academy Awards as the presenter for "Best Documentary." Before announcing the nominations, he did a short stand-up comedy routine about the unspoken agreement between movie theater owners and movie patrons.
On October 4, 2007, Seinfeld made a brief return to NBC, guest-starring as himself in the 30 Rock episode "SeinfeldVision."
On February 24, 2008, at the 80th Academy Awards, Seinfeld appeared as the Voice acting voice of his Bee Movie animated character Barry, presenting "Best Animated Short." Before announcing the nominees, he showed a montage of film clips featuring bees, saying that they were some of his early work (as Barry).

On June 2, 2008, amidst his spring 2008 tour, Seinfeld performed in his hometown of New York City for a one-night-only show at the Hammerstein Ballroom to benefit Stand Up for a Cure, a charity aiding lung cancer research at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center.

In August 2008, the Associated Press reported that Jerry Seinfeld would be the pitchman for Windows Vista, as part of a $300-million advertising campaign by Microsoft. The ads, which were intended to create buzz for Windows in support of the subsequent "Im a PC" advertisements, began airing in mid-September 2008. They were cut from television after three installments; Microsoft opted to continue with the "Im a PC" advertisements
and run the Seinfeld ads on the Microsoft website as a series of longer advertisements.
In March 2009, it was announced that Seinfeld and the entire cast of Seinfeld would be appearing for a reunion in Larry Davids HBO series Curb Your Enthusiasm. The fictional reunion took place in the Curb Your Enthusiasm Season 7 seventh seasons Seinfeld (Curb Your Enthusiasm) finale.

Seinfeld appeared on an episode of the Starz (TV channel) Starz original series Head Case (TV series) Head Case. As was the case in many of his previous guest appearances on sitcoms, he played himself.

In Australia, Seinfeld appeared on a series of advertisements for the Greater Building Society, a building society based in New South Wales and southeastern Queensland.
His appearance in these ads was highly publicized and considered a coup for the society, being the third time Seinfeld had appeared in a television commercial.
The advertisements were filmed in Cedarhurst, Long Island, with the street designed to emulate Beaumont Street in Hamilton, New South Wales Hamilton, where the Greaters head offices are located.
Seinfeld also wrote the scripts for the 15 advertisements that were filmed. The ads largely aired in the Northern New South Wales television market, where the society has most of its branches.

Seinfeld was the first guest on Jay Lenos talk show, The Jay Leno Show, which premiered on September 14, 2009.

Seinfeld was featured on Saturday Night Live{{}}s Weekend Update sketch to do the "Really!?!" segment with Seth Meyers. He executive produced and occasionally starred as a panelist in The Marriage Ref (U.S. TV series) The Marriage Ref. On August 30, 2010, Seinfeld made a surprise guest appearance on The Howard Stern Show, mending the feud the two had in the early 90s.

Seinfeld toured the U.S. in 2011 and made his first stand-up appearance in the United Kingdom UK in 11 years. In July 2011, he was a surprise guest on The Daily Show, helping Jon Stewart to suppress his urge to tell "cheap" "Michele Bachmanns husband acts gay" jokes.
Seinfeld also launched a personal archives website at JerrySeinfeld.com and appeared in the HBO special Talking Funny with fellow comedians Chris Rock, Louis C.K., and Ricky Gervais in the same year.

In 2012 Seinfeld started a Web series, Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee, in which he would pick up a fellow comedian in a different car each episode and take them out for coffee and conversation. The initial series consisted of ten episodes lasting from 7 to 25 minutes each. Season 2 (2013) had six episodes, with guests including Don Rickles and David Letterman.
In June 2013, he appeared on rapper Wale (rapper) Wales album The Gifted (album) The Gifted, on the song "Outro About Nothing."
Seinfeld received coverage for his speech at the 2014 Clio Awards ceremony, where he received an honorary award, as media reporters said that he "mocked" and "ripped apart" the advertising industry; his statement of "I love advertising because I love lying" received particular attention.
On February 15, 2015, Seinfeld made a special appearance as a presenter on "SNL 40", the 40th anniversary special of Saturday Night Live.
In January 2017, Seinfeld had signed a comedy deal with Netflix.
As part of the deal, all episodes of Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee would be made available on the streaming service, in addition to a new twenty-four episode season.
The deal also included two new Seinfeld stand-up specials and the development of scripted and non-scripted comedy programming for Netflix.
On September 19, 2017, Netflix released the standup comedy special Jerry Before Seinfeld.

===Books===
Seinfeld wrote the book Seinlanguage, released in 1993. Written as his television show was first rising in popularity, it is primarily an adaptation of his stand-up material. The title comes from an article in Entertainment Weekly listing the numerous catchphrases for which the show was responsible.
In 2002, he wrote the childrens literature childrens book Halloween (childrens book) Halloween. The book was illustrated by James Bennett.
Seinfeld wrote the forewords to Ted L. Nancys Letters from a Nut series of books and Ed Broths Stories from a Moron.
Seinfeld also wrote the foreword to the Peanut Butter &amp; Co. Cookbook.

==Influences==
Seinfeld has cited as his influences the humorist Jean Shepherd,
and the comedians Jerry Lewis,
Bill Cosby,
George Carlin,
Jay Leno,
Robert Klein,
