Jessica Delfino (born June 8, 1976 in Bridgeport, Connecticut) is a controversial singer, songwriter, and comedian based in New York City. Her songs tend to ridicule taboos and typically include jokes about vaginas and other sexual or dark topics. In her act, she plays an assortment of instruments including guitar, flying V ukulele and a rape whistle. She is also an illustrator and attended Philadelphias Art Institute, as well as the University of Maine. She has won numerous awards, including beating out Flight of the Conchords to win the Best Musical Act at the 2005 ECNY awards,
and a 2005 Village Voice "Best of" Award,
in which the Village Voice declared her to be "fall-off-your-chair hilarious."  She has appeared on Good Morning America
as a finalist in a national comedy competition. She has also won many other competitions, some of them unusual, such as The Stoned Spelling Bee in Brooklyn, the Madagascar Institutes Catholic high
school talent competition
and the Arlenes Grocery "Gong Show," which later became The Gong Show with Dave Attell on Comedy Central.
==Music and Performance==
Jessica Delfinos first CD, Dirty Folk Rock came out in 2004 on the Soundcakes International label.  It received excellent reviews all across the United States, including in Jane (magazine) Jane Magazine, High Times (Best "unsigned" Act of The Week),
Arthur Magazine (in a fawning review by Sonic Youths Thurston Moore)
and The Onion (describing her as "Redd Foxx meets Jewel").

Delfinos second CD, I Wanna Be Famous, came out in June, 2008 on the Loudmouth Records label, and was officially the first CD ever to be released by that label.  It has received praise from Time Out New York,
Time Out London, and Blender (magazine) Blender Magazines Rob Tannenbaum, who described Delfino as "The Joan Baez of the Vagina Song."  Animator Nick Fox-Giegs [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HxNiOK_-hrs video] for the title cut of the song, I Wanna Be Famous, has been viewed more than one million times on YouTube.
She has appeared on Opie &amp; Anthonys radio show,
UK comedian Russell Brands radio show, the Sundance Channel (United States) Sundance Channel, BBCs Loose Ends (radio) Loose Ends Radio Programme, the Just for Laughs Montreal Comedy Festival,
the (Scotland) Edinburgh Fringe Festival, the Galway (Ireland) Comedy Festival, the Bud Light Comedy Festival (Dublin, Ireland), the NY International Childrens Film Festival
and toured the USA with Lisa "Suckdog" Crystal Carver, Dame Darcy, The Trachtenburg Family Slideshow Players, and Corn Mo as their opening act.
She has also appeared on the Fox News Channel show, "Red Eye" with Greg Gutfeld.

Delfino, together with Meatcake (comics) Meat Cake author and fellow musician Dame Darcy created Naughty Nautical Nite, a monthly maritime-themed cabaret show at [http://www.slipperroom.com/ The Slipper Room] in New York City, which showcases off-beat acts from around the world, such as ventriloquist Carla Rhodes and world-renowned thereminist Pamelia Kurstin.  In September, 2008, she appeared in sold-out performances of her show, Dirty Folk Rock, at the Soho Theatre in London, for which she received a "Critics Choice" from Time Out London.
Delfino is also known for performing as various unusual characters, including "Bilge Baron" in her histrionic fear-metal band Haunted Pussy
and "T-Top Trans-Am"
(her white-trash burlesque act) amongst many others, some of which appear in "Skits N Tits" the monthly sketch comedy show she co-produces in NYC with Diane ODebra Langan and Steph Sabelli.

===New York Annual Funny Songs Festival===
In June, 2012, Jessica Delfino organized the First Annual Funny Songs Festival in New York City,
"a four-day event that bills itself as the city’s first comedy music festival,"
featuring performers including Rob Paravonian, Jen Kwok, Ben Lerman, Soce the Elemental Wizard, Mindy Raf, Carolyn Castiglia, Myq Kaplan, Micah Sherman, and Jessica Delfino herself, among many others.
The festival is scheduled to occur from Thursday, June 7, 2012 through Sunday, June 10, 2012 in Manhattans Lower East Side neighborhood, and Delfino and the festival were the subject of feature articles in The New York Times, Time Out New York, and numerous other publications.
==Politics==
Delfino managed the 2005 mayoral campaign of Christopher X. Brodeur, and she was featured in the 2009 documentary, The Promise of New York.
==Writing==
Delfino wrote for MTVs game show, I Bet You Will.
Later, Morgan Spurlock hired her to write songs for his recent documentary film, What Would Jesus Buy?.

Delfino writes a blog
that Wil Wheaton called "the funniest thing Ive ever read."
She has also been a regular contributor for Turner Network Television TNTs Saving Grace (TV series) Saving Grace television series blog.

==Controversy==

On December 19, 2006, Catholic League (U.S.) Catholic League president William A. Donohue publicly attacked Delfinos act, asserting that it "provides ammunition" to Muslim terrorists by "harboring a depraved understanding of liberty."
In response, Delfino stated, "I was brought up Catholic, and I was also brought up to believe that it isnt anti-Catholic to celebrate the life-giving and life-nurturing parts of a woman’s body.  I don’t know why William Donohue hates women’s bodies.  I don’t know why he is afraid of refocusing attention on humanitys true source of creation, the mysterious and magical womb.  But I do know that William Donohue is a hypocrite and a bigot, who has publicly made outrageous and highly-offensive anti-Semitic, and now anti-Muslim statements.  And that certainly doesnt make him a better Catholic than I am.  William Donohue does not speak for all Catholics.  He doesnt speak for me."
On the day after Google announced its purchase of YouTube, YouTube removed a popular video of one of Delfinos songs, the subject of which was that her vagina was magic.  On October 11, 2008, that same video was featured as the top pick on playboy.coms "Video Hotlist," and was featured on the main front page of playboy.coms Web site.
== Discography ==

===Albums===
*Dirty Folk Rock, 2004
*I Wanna Be Famous, 2008

===Songs===
*"My Pussy Is Magic"
*"I Wanna Be Famous (song) I Wanna Be Famous"
*"Jewish Boys"
