}}
James Patrick Anthony Dore (born July 26, 1965) is an American Stand-up comedy stand-up comedian and Pundit political commentator best known for hosting The Jimmy Dore Show and co-hosting The Aggressive Progressives on The Young Turks network.

==Early life==  
Dore was born on July 26, 1965, into a Catholic Church Catholic family of twelve children on the southwest side of Chicago, Illinois of Polish and Irish descent. He graduated from Columbia College Chicago.
He started performing in 1989.
Dore currently lives in Pasadena, California Pasadena.

==Career==
Dore has made many appearances on late-night television on shows such as American Broadcasting Company ABCs Jimmy Kimmel Live!, CBSs The Late Late Show (U.S.)#Craig Kilborn (1999–2004) The Late Late Show with Craig Kilborn, and NBCs Late Friday. He starred in a Comedy Central Presents half-hour special on April 9, 2004. He also starred in Comedy Centrals "Citizen Jimmy" a one-hour stand-up special which was chosen "Best Of 2008" by iTunes.  He was a writer–performer for the off-Broadway hit The Marijuana-Logues. He has also performed at the Montreal Comedy Festival, the The Comedy Festival U.S. Comedy Arts Festival, the Melbourne International Comedy Festival, the Amsterdam Comedy Festival, and for U.S. troops in Afghanistan.
He had a role in the 2008 documentary film Super High Me.

He hosted the podcast Comedy And Everything Else with his wife Stefane Zamorano and previously with Todd Glass, who departed from the show in late 2009. In June 2009 he began producing The Jimmy Dore Show, a weekly one-hour comedic look at the news, which originates at KPFK 90.7 FM Los Angeles, airs nationally on the Pacifica Radio Pacifica Radio Network and online on The Young Turks#Multi-channel network TYT Network.

Dore wrote his first book, Your Country Is Just Not That Into You in 2014, and his latest comedy special, Sentenced to Live, was released on October 6, 2015. Much of his recent material is focused on the corporate news media, social criticism, and politics. He also hosts his monthly show, Left, Right &amp; Ridiculous, at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre in Hollywood, Los Angeles, California Hollywood.

==Political commentary ==
Dore appeared as a frequent guest host on Current TVs Political criticism political commentary show The Young Turks#The Young Turks with Cenk Uygur (2011–2013) The Young Turks with Cenk Uygur. He now appears on the web series The Young Turks, as well as hosting The Jimmy Dore Show, a political commentary series under the The Young Turks TYT banner with around 350,000 subscribers.

Dore was supportive of the Bernie Sanders campaign in the Democratic Party presidential primaries, 2016 2016 Democratic Party presidential primaries, being called "Sanders-obsessed" by The Washington Post.
He was critical of Senator Elizabeth Warren for not defending Sanders in the primaries.
Since the 2016 presidential election, "Jimmy Dore has lit into Democrats for blaming hackers for their loss, raised doubts about the credibility of intelligence agencies, and seen the heavy hand of war hawks hyping the Russia connection to destabilize Europe and the Middle East," according to the Washington Post.
Since Trumps inauguration, Dore "has zeroed in on corporate media and the hypocrisies of Democrats, rather than taking on Trump," according to Truthdig.
==Discography==
* Its Not Brain Surgery (2000)
* Really? (2004?)
* Citizen Jimmy (2008)
* Its 2016 (2016)
