James Thomas Fallon (born September 19, 1974) is an American comedian, actor, television host, singer, writer, and producer. He is known for his work in television as a cast member on Saturday Night Live and as the host of late-night talk show The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon and before that Late Night with Jimmy Fallon. He grew up with an interest in comedy and music, moving to Los Angeles at 21 to pursue opportunities in stand-up comedy.

He was commissioned to join NBCs Saturday Night Live as a cast member in 1998, fulfilling a lifelong dream. Fallon remained on SNL for six years between 1998 and 2004, co-hosting the programs Weekend Update segment and becoming a celebrity in the process. He left the program for the film industry, starring in films such as Taxi (2004 film) Taxi (2004) and Fever Pitch (2005 film) Fever Pitch (2005).

Following his film career, Fallon returned to television as the host of Late Night with Jimmy Fallon on NBC in 2009, where he became well known for his emphasis on music and games. He moved from that program to become the sixth permanent host of the long-running The Tonight Show in 2014. In addition to his television work, Fallon has released two comedy albums and five books.

==Early life==
James Thomas Fallon was born in the Bay Ridge, Brooklyn Bay Ridge neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York on September 19, 1974, the son of Gloria (née Feeley) and James W. Fallon.
<!--- no evidence of "Sr." --->
He is of German, Irish, and Norwegian descent. His paternal grandmother, Luise Schalla, was a German immigrant from Osterholz-Scharmbeck, while one of his maternal great-grandfathers, Hans Hovelsen, was a Norwegian immigrant from Fredrikstad. Another set of great-great-grandparents were Thomas Fallon, an Irishman from County Galway, and Louisa Stickever, the daughter of an Irishman born in France and his Irish wife.
A Vietnam War veteran, Fallons father spent his adolescence singing in street-corner doo-wop groups.
Shortly after his sons birth, he started working as a machine repairman for IBM in Kingston, New York.
In preparation, the family relocated nearby to Saugerties (village), New York Saugerties, New York. Fallon has described his childhood as "idyllic",
while his parents have been noted as overprotective. He and his sister, Gloria, were unable to leave their home
