Joe Penner (November 11, 1904 – January 10, 1941) was an American 1930s-era vaudeville, radio and film comedian.

==Emigration to America==
Recorded as Josef Pinter on the steerage manifest of the RMS Slavonia RMS Slavonia, sailing from Fiume, Italy, May 4, and arriving at the Port of New York on May 23, 1907, the future comedian was accompanied by his sister, Maria, and their guardian, Istvan Molnar. They settled in Elkhart, Indiana.

==Vaudeville and Burlesque==
Joe Penner first made his mark in local entertainments in Indiana and, thanks to his clowning and "Wanna Buy a Duck?" routine, he was soon in small-time burlesque and vaudeville. A high point came when he performed in the Greenwich Village Follies in Chicago in 1926. After this break, he toured in mainstream vaudeville until its gradual demise around 1932.

==Radio==
Penner developed his catch phrases in burlesque. In 1932 he toured in a vaudeville revue with Eddie Tamblyn, father of actor Russ Tamblyn. He was launched on his successful radio career by Rudy Vallée, appearances which led to his own Sunday evening half-hour, The Bakers Broadcast, which began on the Blue Network October 8, 1933. Penner was a zany comic, noted for his famed catchphrase, "Wanna buy a duck?", and his low hyuck-hyuck laugh. Penners other memorable catchphrase, often triggered by someone elses double entendre remark, was, "You naaaasss-ty man!"
<br/>
He was voted radios top comedian in 1934, but a 1935 dispute with the ad agency over the shows format resulted in Penner quitting The Bakers Broadcast on June 30, 1935. Vox Pop (radio) Vox Pop began as a summer replacement series for Penner in 1935. A year later, he returned with The Joe Penner Show, which began airing October 4, 1936 on CBS, sponsored by Cocomalt, with Harry Conn as his new head writer.
==Films==
File:Riggspenner.jpg right thumb 350px NBC brought together (l to r) Bob Burns (comedian) Bob Burns, Tommy Riggs and Betty Lou Tommy Riggs, Charlie McCarthy, Edgar Bergen, Rudy Vallée and Joe Penner.Penners films include College Rhythm (1934), New Faces of 1937 (1937), "Mr. Doodle Kicks Off" (1938),The Day the Bookies Wept (1939) and Millionaire Playboy (1940). He was caricatured by Tex Avery and Friz Freleng in the musical cartoon, "My Green Fedora", "Can You Take It?" a "Popeye the Sailor" cartoon (Max Fleischer for Paramount), and several pictures starring the bumbling stooge Egghead (Looney Tunes) Egghead. He also made a cameo appearance cameo in the Disney cartoon "Mother Goose Goes Hollywood" in which he says, "Wanna buy a duck?", and then shows Donald Duck on a Plate (dishware) plate.


After covering the 1932–34 rise of Jack Pearl, Elizabeth McLeod summed up Penners popularity:
<blockquote>
 The ultimate Depression-era zany was Joe Penner. A forgotten performer today to most, and little more than a footnote to the average OTR [old-time radio] fan, Penner was a national craze in 1933–34.  There is no deep social meaning in his comedy, no shades of subtlety — just utter slapstick foolishness, delivered in an endearingly simpering style thats the closest thing the 1930s had to Pee-wee Herman. An added attraction was Penners in-character singing each week of a whimsical novelty song, specially written to suit his style. Like Pearl, however, Penner was doomed to early decline by the sheer repetitiveness of his format, even though he remained very popular with children right up to the end of his radio career.
</blockquote>
Part of the reason for Penners relative obscurity in modern times is the lack of surviving recordings of Penners work. His radio show aired in the early 1930s; widespread recording of popular radio shows began in 1936, just as his show was ending.

==Personal life==
He was an ethnic Hungarian born as József Pintér in Zrenjanin Nagybecskerek, Austria-Hungary (in what is present-day Zrenjanin, Serbia). He passed through Ellis Island as a child when his family emigrated to America. In 1928, he married showgirl Eleanor May Vogt (1908–1946).
Penner died in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1941, aged 36.
