Jonathan Southworth Ritter
(September 17, 1948 – September 11, 2003) was an American actor and comedian. He was a son of the  singing cowboy star Tex Ritter and the father of actors Jason Ritter and Tyler Ritter. Ritter was known for playing Jack Tripper on the American Broadcasting Company ABC sitcom Threes Company (1977–1984), for which he received a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series Primetime Emmy Award and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Television Series Musical or Comedy Golden Globe Award in 1984. He briefly reprised the role on the spin-off Threes a Crowd, which aired for one season.

Ritter appeared in over 100 John Ritter#Filmography films and television series combined and performed on Broadway theatre Broadway, with roles including It (miniseries) It (1990), Problem Child (1990 film) Problem Child (1990), Problem Child 2 (1991), and Bad Santa in 2003 (his final live action film, which was dedicated to his memory). In 2002, Don Knotts called Ritter the "greatest physical comedian on the planet".
His final roles include voice acting voicing the title character on the PBS Kids PBS childrens program Clifford the Big Red Dog (TV series) Clifford the Big Red Dog (2000–2003), for which he received four Daytime Emmy Award nominations, and as Paul Hennessy on the ABC sitcom 8 Simple Rules (2002–2003). Ritter experienced discomfort during a rehearsal for the latter on the afternoon of September 11, 2003 and died later that evening of an aortic dissection at the age of 54.

==Early life==
Ritter was born at the Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center in Burbank, California, on September 17, 1948.
Ritter had a birth defect known as a coloboma in his right eye. His father, Tex Ritter, was a singing cowboy/matinee star, and his mother, Dorothy Fay (née Southworth), was an actress.
He had an older brother, Thomas Matthews "Tom" (b. January 8, 1947).
Ritter attended Hollywood High School, where he was student body president. He attended the University of Southern California and majored in psychology with plans to have a career in politics. He later changed his major to theater arts and attended the USC School of Dramatic Arts (formerly School of Theatre).  Ritter was a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity at USC.  While still in college, Ritter traveled to the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and West Germany to perform in plays. Ritter graduated in 1971.
==Career==

===Film and television===
File:John Ritter 1977.jpg thumb Ritter as Jack Tripper, 1977
Ritter headlined several stage performances. After his graduation from USC in 1970, his first TV acting experience was a campus revolutionary in the TV series Dan August starring Burt Reynolds and future Threes Company co-star Norman Fell. Ritter made his film debut in the 1971 Disney film The Barefoot Executive. He made guest appearances on the television series Hawaii Five-O (1968 TV series) Hawaii Five-O, M*A*S*H (TV series) M*A*S*H, and many others. He had a recurring role as the Reverend Matthew Fordwick on the drama series The Waltons from October 1972 to December 1976. Since he was not a weekly cast member, he had time to pursue other roles, which he did until December 1976, when he left for a starring role in the hit American Broadcasting Company ABC sitcom Threes Company (the Americanized version of the 1970s British Thames Television series Man About the House) in 1977. In 1978, Ritter played Ringo Starrs manager on the TV special Ringo (1978 film) Ringo. In 1982, Ritter provided the voice of Peter Dickinson in The Flight of Dragons.

Ritter became a household name playing struggling culinary student Jack Tripper with two female roommates. Ritter co-starred opposite Joyce DeWitt and Suzanne Somers; however, Somers left due to a contractual dispute in 1981. Jenilee Harrison and then Priscilla Barnes filled Somerss role. Much of the comedy centered around Jacks pretending to be gay to keep the old-fashioned landlords appeased over the seemingly sordid living arrangements. The series spent several seasons near the top of the TV ratings in the U.S. before ending in 1984 in television 1984. A year-long spin-off Threes a Crowd ensued, as the Jack Tripper character has a live-in girlfriend and runs his own bistro. The original series has been seen continuously in reruns and is also available on DVD. During the run of Threes Company, Ritter also appeared in the films Hero at Large, Americathon, and They All Laughed. In 1986, he played the role of "Dad" in the music video for Graham Nashs song "Innocent Eyes" from the Innocent Eyes (Graham Nash album) album of the same name.

Hooperman was Ritters first regular television role after Threes Company. Detective Harry Hooperman inherits a run-down apartment building and hires Susan Smith (Debrah Farentino) to run it. A relationship follows and Hooperman must juggle work, love, and the antics of Bijoux the dog. In 1988, John was nominated for both an Emmy Award
and a Golden Globe Award for his work on Hooperman. Ritter won a Peoples Choice Awards Peoples Choice Award for this role. In 1992–95, Ritter returned to television for three seasons as John Hartman, aide to a U.S. Senator in Hearts Afire. This series starred Markie Post as Georgie Anne Lahti and Billy Bob Thornton as Billy Bob Davis. He also played Garry Lejeune / Roger Tramplemain in the production Noises Off in 1992.

After his time on television, he appeared in a number of movies, most notably Problem Child (film) Problem Child and its Problem Child 2 first sequel. He played the lead role in Blake Edwards 1989 film Skin Deep (1989 film) Skin Deep, appeared in the film version of Noises Off (film) Noises Off, rejoined Billy Bob Thornton in the Academy Awards Oscar-winning Sling Blade (playing a kindhearted, gay, discount-store manager), and co-starred with Olivier Gruner in the 1996 action film Mercenary. Ritter starred in many made-for-TV movies, including Gramps (1995), co-starring with Andy Griffith, Rob Heddens The Colony (1995) with Hal Linden, Stephen Kings It (miniseries) It, Danielle Steels Heartbeat with Polly Draper, and It Came From the Sky (film) It Came From the Sky in 1999 in film 1999 with Yasmine Bleeth.

Ritter also made guest appearances on TV shows, such as Felicity (TV series) Felicity, Ally McBeal, Scrubs (TV series) Scrubs, Buffy the Vampire Slayer (TV series) Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and an episode of Law &amp; Order: SVU (2002). John also provided the voice acting voice of the Clifford the Big Red Dog title character in the PBS Kids PBS animated childrens show Clifford the Big Red Dog (TV series) Clifford the Big Red Dog, a role for which he received four Daytime Emmy Award Emmy nominations. His final film was Stanleys Dinosaur Round-Up (2006), an animated direct-to-DVD film based on the television series, which was released posthumously.

At the time of his death he was starring in 8 Simple Rules 8 Simple Rules for Dating My Teenage Daughter.

===Theater===
Ritter played Claude Pichon in The Dinner Party (play) The Dinner Party (2000) at the Music Box Theatre on Broadway theatre Broadway, which was written by Neil Simon. It ran for 364 performances. Ritter won the Theatre World Award in 2001 for his performance in that work.
In 2003, Ritter made his final stage appearance in All About Eve, a star-studded benefit for the Actors Fund of America held at the Ahmanson Theatre.

==Personal life==
In 1977, Ritter married actress Nancy Morgan, with whom he had three children: Jason Ritter Jason (who first appeared in the opening credits of Threes Company),
Carly, and Tyler Ritter Tyler.
