Jon Stewart (born Jonathan Stuart Leibowitz; November 28, 1962) is an American comedian, writer, producer, director, political commentator, actor, and television host. He hosted The Daily Show, a news satire satirical news program on Comedy Central, from 1999 to 2015.

Stewart started as a stand-up comedian, but branched into television as host of Short Attention Span Theater for Comedy Central. He went on to host his own show on MTV, The Jon Stewart Show, and then hosted You Wrote It, You Watch It, also on MTV. He has also had several film roles as an actor, but has done few cinematic projects since becoming the host of The Daily Show in 1999. He was also a writer and co-executive producer of the show. After Stewart joined, The Daily Show steadily gained popularity and critical acclaim, and during his tenure, The Daily Show won 22 Primetime Emmy Awards.

Stewart is known as an outspoken, humorous critic of personality-driven media shows, in particular those of the Media of the United States U.S. media networks such as CNN, Fox News, and MSNBC. Critics say Stewart benefits from a double standard: he critiques other news shows from the safe, removed position of his "news satire" desk.
Stewart agrees, saying that neither his show nor his channel purports to be anything other than satire and comedy. In spite of its self-professed entertainment mandate, The Daily Show has been nominated for news and journalism List of awards and nominations received by The Daily Show with Jon Stewart awards. Stewart hosted the 78th Academy Awards 78th and 80th Academy Awards. He is the co-author of America (The Book) America (The Book): A Citizens Guide to Democracy Inaction, which was one of the best-selling books in the U.S. in 2004,
and Earth (The Book) Earth (The Book): A Visitors Guide to the Human Race, released in 2010.

==Early life==
Jon Stewart was born Jonathan Stuart Leibowitz on November 28, 1962,
in New York City, to Marian (née Laskin), a teacher and later educational consultant,
