Jonathan Stephen Ross {{postnom country=GBR OBE}} (born 17 November 1960) is an English television and radio presenter, film critic, actor and comedian best known for presenting the BBC One chat show Friday Night with Jonathan Ross during the 2000s. Ross also hosted his own radio show on BBC Radio 2, and acted as a film critic and presenter of the Film... (TV programme) Film programme. After leaving the BBC, Ross then began hosting a new chat show on ITV (TV network) ITV, The Jonathan Ross Show. Other regular roles have included being a regular panellist on the comedy sports quiz They Think Its All Over (TV series) They Think Its All Over and being a regular presenter of the British Comedy Awards.

Ross began his television career as a programme researcher, before débuting as a television presenter for The Last Resort with Jonathan Ross on Channel 4 in 1987. Over the next decade he had several radio and television roles, many through his own production company, Channel X. In 1995 he sold his stake in Channel X, and embarked on a career with the BBC. In 1999, Ross took over presenting the Film programme from Barry Norman, and also began presenting his own radio show, while two years later he began hosting Friday Night with Jonathan Ross. For the chat show, Ross won three British Academy of Film and Television Arts BAFTA awards for Best Entertainment Performance, in 2004, 2006 and 2007. By 2006 Ross was believed to be the BBCs highest paid star.

In 2005, Ross was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) for services to broadcasting.
Ross has been involved in controversies throughout his broadcasting career.
As a result, in 2008 he wrote a semi-autobiographical work titled Why Do I Say These Things?, detailing some of his life experiences.

Ross has been married to the author, journalist and broadcaster Jane Goldman since 1988; they have three children. Ross and Goldman have together established the television production company Hotsauce TV. Ross is known as an avid fan and collector of comic books and memorabilia, and has written his own comic books, Turf (Image Comics) Turf and Americas Got Powers. Ross is known for his distinctive voice, flamboyant style of dress,
light-hearted banter and his characteristic Rhotacism (speech impediment) difficulty in pronouncing the letter R.

==Early life and career==
The son of a lorry driver father and an actress mother, Martha Ross Martha, Ross was born in St Pancras, London, England, on 17 November 1960, but grew up in Leytonstone
He is the brother of journalist, television editor, and media personality Paul Ross; TV producer/actor Miles Ross (producer) Miles Ross; TV producer Simon Ross, and music industry professional Adam Ross.

Their mother put all of her children forward for roles in television advertisements.
Ross first appeared in a television advertisement  for the breakfast cereal Kelloggs Rice Krispies in 1970, when he was 10 years old.
He also appeared in an ad for the laundry detergent Persil.
Ross was educated at Norlington School for Boys, a comprehensive school and at Leyton Sixth Form College Leyton County High School for Boys, a comprehensive school.
He then studied Modern European History at the School of Slavonic and East European Studies (SSEES) in London, which today forms part of University College London.
Ross began his adult career as a researcher on the Channel 4 show Loose Talk. After leaving this, he worked on various other shows before beginning another research job on Soul Train, which became Solid Soul. It is believed his first appearance on television was as an extra in the 1981 It Aint Half Hot, Mum episode, The Last Roll Call.
==Presenter and producer==

===1987–95: Channel X===
Whilst on Solid Soul, he met fellow researcher Alan Marke, and the two devised what would prove to be a breakthrough hit for Ross in 1987, {{anchor The Last Resort}}
<!-- The Last Resort with Jonathan Ross] redirects here-->
The Last Resort with Jonathan Ross.
The two men based their concept on the successful American show Late Night with David Letterman, and formed a new production company called Channel X, to produce a pilot. Ross had not planned to be the shows host, but he presented the show from its debut in January 1987.
While the series was initially a co-production with Colin Callender, ownership transferred to Marke and Ross, meaning that the latter retained a great deal of control as well as being presenter.
The show was successful for both Ross and for Channel 4, making him one of the major personalities on the channel. A year later, his documentary series The Incredibly Strange Film Show introduced many to the works of cult filmmakers like Sam Raimi and Jackie Chan.

In 1990 and 1991, his television documentary series Jonathan Ross Presents for One Week Only
profiled and interviewed directors including Alejandro Jodorowsky, David Lynch, Aki Kaurismaki and in 2014, the Spanish filmmaker, Pedro Almodovar.
In 1989, he co-presented the biennial BBC charity telethon Comic Relief (charity) Comic Relief, the same year he launched One Hour with Jonathan Ross a short lived chat show on Channel 4. Its game show segment, "Knock down ginger", introduced comedians such as Vic Reeves, Bob Mortimer, Paul Whitehouse and Charlie Higson to television. In December 1989, Ross appeared on Cilla Black Cillas Goodbye to the 80s and presented all four members of Queen (band) Queen with the "Top Band of the Eighties" prize in a broadcast for ITV (TV network) ITV which would turn out to be Freddie Mercurys penultimate public appearance before his death from AIDS in 1991.

In 1991, he presented the annual British Comedy Awards on ITV (TV network) ITV. He has presented the event each year since, but in 2008 announced he would be stepping down from the role following his suspension from the BBC.
In 1992 he presented an interview with Madonna (entertainer) Madonna about her Erotica (Madonna album) Erotica album and Sex (book) Sex Book promotion.

Ross has appeared in numerous television entertainment programmes on several channels throughout the 1990s and 2000s. He was a regular panellist on the sports quiz They Think Its All Over (TV series) They Think Its All Over, and hosted the panel game Its Only TV...But I Like It. Other projects include the BBC joke-quiz Gagtag, the Channel 4 variety show Saturday Zoo, new-acts showcase The Big Big Talent Show, and the ITV programme Fantastic Facts.

In 1995, he left Channel X, despite its profitable nature. He was quoted in a 1998 article as stating:
{{quote It was to do with a deliberate change in my life, moving away from TV as the core of my existence to focus on my family more. So I had to give up everything to do with Channel X, and I literally got only £1 for my share, which was unbelievable.
}}

===1995–2006===
In 1995, he presented Mondo Rosso, a programme about old cult films. He took over presenting of Film... (TV programme) the Film programme, the BBCs long-running cinema review series, in 1999 after Barry Norman left the show. Ross himself has made a number of cameo appearances in films, playing himself in the Spice Girls film Spice World (film) Spice World (1997) and voicing the character of Doris in the UK version of Shrek 2 (2004). In 2001 he also played himself in Only Fools and Horses, presenting If They Could See Us Now Goldrush, a fictional television quiz on which the main character, Derek Trotter Del, was a contestant. In 2001 he voiced characters in two episodes of the animated comedy series Rex the Runt. He also appeared on the first pilot show for Shooting Stars (TV series) Shooting Stars, acting as a team captain.

===1987, 1999–2010, 2014–2018: BBC Radio===
Ross first radio work was on BBC Radio 1 in 1987, when he sat in for Janice Long for two weeks. Ross began presenting a Saturday morning show on BBC Radio 2 in 1999. He has also presented radio shows for Virgin Radio (having previously worked on Richard Bransons earlier venture, Radio Radio), as well as the now-defunct commercial radio network service The Superstation, where his producer was Chris Evans (presenter) Chris Evans. Ross show on Radio 2 last aired on 17 July 2010 when his contract at the BBC ended.

In August 2014, he returned to Radio 2 as a stand-in presenter on Steve Wrights afternoon show for four days.
In March 2015 Jonathan sat in for Steve Wright again from 16–27 March 2015.{{Citation needed reason=2015 dates not included in 2014 reference date=April 2015}} In February 2016 Ross returned to Radio 2 on a regular basis to present the weekly arts show. From January 11, 2018, Anneka Rice took over the arts show.

===2001–10: Friday Night with Jonathan Ross and other projects===
File:JonathanRossRickyGervais.jpg thumb right Ross with Ricky Gervais at Live 8 in July 2005
On 2 November 2001, Ross began presenting his BBC One comedy chat show Friday Night with Jonathan Ross.

In 2004, Ross presented a documentary on one of his favourite subjects, punk rock, for the BBC.
In 2005, Ross anchored the BBC television coverage of the Live 8 concerts. Later that year he was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in the British honours system Queens Birthday Honours for services to broadcasting. He celebrated the news by playing "God Save the Queen (Sex Pistols song) God Save the Queen" by The Sex Pistols (which was banned by the BBC when released in 1977) on his BBC Radio 2 Saturday morning show. On 21 June 2006, Ross was made a Fellow of University College London, where he studied.

In early 2006, Ross announced that after eight years he was quitting his regular panellist seat on the sport/comedy quiz show They Think Its All Over (TV series) They Think Its All Over explaining: "I need time now to focus on my other commitments and so regrettably I wont be back for the 20th series." After Rosss departure, only two more episodes of the show were made before it was cancelled.

In January 2006 he presented Jonathan Ross Asian Invasion, broadcast on BBC Four. The three-part documentary followed Ross as he explored the film industry in Japan, Hong Kong and South Korea, interviewing directors and showcasing clips. His interest in Culture of East Asia East Asian culture and his self-confessed love for Japanese anime and Video games in Japan video games led him to making three series of BBC Three (former) BBC Three show Japanorama, as well as producing another television series for the same channel called Adam and Joe Go Tokyo, starring Adam Buxton and Joe Cornish (filmmaker) Joe Cornish. He produced the latter programme through his own television production company Hot Sauce.

In June 2006, a bidding war was sparked between BBC and other broadcasters for Rosss services. Although other broadcasters were unsuccessful in poaching Ross, it is believed that their bids were higher than the BBC during negotiations. ITV, who bid for Ross, poached chat host Michael Parkinson around the same time. Ross became the highest paid television personality in Britain, when a new BBC contract secured his services until 2010, for a reported £18 million (£6 million per year).
That same month, he was named by Radio Times as the Radio Timess Most Powerful People in Radio most powerful person in British radio.
On 25 June 2006, he performed at the Childrens Party at the Palace for Elizabeth II the Queens 80th birthday. In August 2006, Ross was enlisted to ask the first question
since the transition from beta for the Yahoo Answers in UK and Ireland.

On 16 March 2007, Ross hosted Comic Relief (charity) Comic Relief 2007 alongside Fearne Cotton and Lenny Henry.

On 7 July 2007, Ross co-presented (with Graham Norton) BBC television coverage of the Live Earth (2007 concert) Live Earth climate change awareness concerts, which became the subject of controversy due to the foul language used by performers including Phil Collins, Madonna (entertainer) Madonna and Johnny Borrell, resulting in one of Ofcoms toughest sanctions to date on the BBC.
Ross had been required to apologise on the day for the language used by Collins and Borrell.
Starting on 10 September 2007, he presented the BBC Four series Comics Britannia, about the history of the British comic. This forms the core of a Comics Britannia season, which includes another documentary, In Search of Steve Ditko, by Ross.
Ross is also greatly interested in Japan, presenting a BBC-TV series on many different aspects of Japanese culture, Japanorama, for three series between 2002–07.

In May 2008, Ross won the Sony Gold Award "Music Radio Personality of the Year".
On 3 August 2008, he hosted Jonathan Ross Salutes Dads Army, a BBC One tribute to the popular sitcom set during World War II.
In 2010, Ross took part in Channel 4s Comedy Gala, a Benefit concert benefit show held in aid of Great Ormond Street Hospital Great Ormond Street Childrens Hospital, filmed live at the The O2 Arena (London) O2 Arena in London on 30 March.

On 7 April 2010, Rosss first comic book was published. Turf (Image Comics) Turf was written by Jonathan himself and drawn by artist Tommy Lee Edwards.
In 2011, Ross wrote an introduction for The Steve Ditko Omnibus Vol. 1,
a collection of work by the American comics artist featured in Rosss 2007 documentary.

===2010: Leaving the BBC===
On 7 January 2010, Ross confirmed that he would leave the BBC in July 2010. This would see him leave all his regular BBC roles, namely his Friday night chat show, Radio 2 show and a film review programme, although he would be continuing with some specials, such as Comic Relief and the BAFTA Awards.
