Josh Blue (born November 27, 1978) is an United States American comedian.  He was voted the Last Comic Standing on NBCs reality show Last Comic Standing during its Last Comic Standing 4 fourth season, which aired May–August 2006.
Blue has cerebral palsy, and much of his self-deprecating humor is centered on this.

==Early life==
Blue was born in Cameroon where his father, Walter Blue, was a professor of Romance languages at Hamline University teaching during a Mission (station) mission. Blue grew up in Saint Paul, Minnesota, and graduated from Como Park Senior High School in 1997. He began his career as a comedian while seeking a creative writing degree at The Evergreen State College.
During college, he went back to Africa to volunteer as an intern at Parc de Hahn, a zoo in Senegal.
At one point for a joke on a busy weekend, Josh locked himself in an empty animal exhibit for 8 hours. A bewildered crowd threw him bananas and peanuts anyway, to which Josh quips "that was the best day I ate in Senegal!"
==Career==
Blue got his start in comedy doing open mic sets while attending The Evergreen State College. Audiences reacted enthusiastically to his self-deprecating humor, and Blue started making a name for himself on the comedy circuit. In 2002, he won the prestigious Comedy Works New Talent Search contest. He has appeared several times on Comedy Centrals Mind of Mencia.
Blue won $10,000 for finishing in first place at 2004 Las Vegas Comedy Festivals 2004 Royal Flush Comedy Competition.
After winning the 2006 season of NBCs reality show Last Comic Standing,
he was the first comedian to do stand-up on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
His other television credits include Live with Regis and Kelly, Comics Unleashed, plus numerous appearances on Fox Broadcasting Company Fox, CBS, American Broadcasting Company ABC, and MSNBC.
He appeared in the 2009 low-budget horror film Feast III: The Happy Finish.
Josh was voted the 13th best comedian by viewers in Comedy Centrals Stand-up Comedy Showdown 2010.

Blue appeared in Boulder band Rose Hill Drives music video  "The Psychoanalyst".
File:Josh Blue.jpg thumb left

Blue was voted the 11th best comedian by viewers in Comedy Centrals Stand-up Comedy Showdown 2011.

He appeared in Ron Whites Las Vegas Salute to the Troops 2013 as part of the opening act.
Blue also appeared in the sports based comedy 108 Stitches in 2014.
==Personal life==
Blue currently resides in Denver, Colorado,
with his two children: a son, Simon, and a daughter, Seika.

Blue played a part in the 2004 U.S. Paralympic Games Paralympic Paralympic football soccer team.
He also creates and sells sculptures and paintings. 

Blue has cerebral palsy,
specifically classified as spastic hemiplegic cerebral palsy, and many of his jokes center on living with his disability, how he deals with it, and how other people view him.
Blue appeared on Last Comic Standing to "make people aware of the fact that people with disabilities can make an impact."
He coined the term "palsy punch" during his final set of the final round of the show, when he said that the palsy punch is effective in a fight because "first of all, they dont know where the punch is coming from, and second of all, neither do I." One of Blues competitors said he has "an unreasonable amount of likability" while another of his competitors said "he is just a good guy".
Blue also joked that signing an autograph takes 45 minutes and that to write down his phone number he has to find a "big ol stack of paper."
{{clear}}

==Discography==
*Good Josh, Bad Arm (2008)
*Hooligan Stew (2012)
*Sticky Change (2013)
*Delete (2016)
==See also==
* Steady Eddy – Australian comedian with cerebral palsy
* Lee Ridley (comedian) – British comedian with cerebral palsy
