Judd Apatow (born December 6, 1967) is an American producer, writer, director, actor and stand-up comedian. He is the founder of Apatow Productions, through which he produced and developed the television series Freaks and Geeks, Undeclared, Girls (TV series) Girls, Love (TV series) Love, and Crashing (U.S. TV series) Crashing and directed the films The 40-Year-Old Virgin (2005), Knocked Up (2007), Funny People (2009), This Is 40 (2012), and Trainwreck (film) Trainwreck (2015).
 
Apatows work has won numerous awards including a Primetime Emmy Award, a Hollywood Comedy Award, and an American Film Institute#AFI Awards AFI Award for Bridesmaids (2011 film) Bridesmaids (2011).
His films have also been nominated for Grammy Awards, PGA Awards, Golden Globe Awards, and Academy Awards.{{citation needed date=April 2018}}
 
His producing credits include Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy (2004),  Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby (2006), Superbad (film) Superbad (2007), Forgetting Sarah Marshall (2008), Pineapple Express (film) Pineapple Express (2008), Get Him to the Greek (2010), Bridesmaids (2011 film) Bridesmaids (2011), The Five-Year Engagement (2012), Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues (2013), Begin Again (film) Begin Again (2014), Popstar: Never Stop Never Stopping (2016), and The Big Sick (2017).

==Early life and education==
Judd Apatow was born in Flushing, Queens, and raised in Syosset, New York Syosset, New York. His mother, Tamara "Tami" (née Shad), worked primarily managing record labels founded by her father and his grandfather,
music producer Bob Shad.
His father, Maury Apatow, was a real estate developer.
His family is Jews Jewish,
"but nonreligious."
Apatow has an older brother, Robert, and a younger sister, Mia.
His maternal grandmother, Molly, co-starred in his film This Is 40 (playing the grandmother of Paul Rudds character).
When Apatow was twelve years old, his parents divorced. Robert went to live with his maternal grandparents, and Mia went to live with her mother. As a child, Apatow lived mainly with his father, and visited his mother on weekends. Apatows mother spent a summer working at a comedy club, which is where Judd was first exposed to live stand-up comedy.
Apatow was obsessed with comedy as a child; his childhood heroes were Steve Martin, Bill Cosby and the Marx Brothers.
Apatow got his comic start washing dishes at the Long Island East Side Comedy Club, and while attending Syosset High School, he played jazz
and hosted a program called Comedy Club on the schools 125-watt radio station WKWZ which he created as a way to meet and learn from the comedians he looked up to.
He Cold calling cold-called comedians he admired during this time, managing to interview Steve Allen, Howard Stern, Harold Ramis and John Candy, along with emerging comedians such as Jerry Seinfeld, Steven Wright and Garry Shandling.
==Career==

===1985–2003: Stand-up, early film and television work===
Apatow began performing stand-up comedy at age seventeen, during his senior year of high school.
In the September 1985 issue of Laugh Factory Magazine, he is listed as an Associate Editor. After graduating from high school in 1985, he moved to Los Angeles and enrolled in the screenwriting program at University of Southern California.
While at USC, he organized and hosted a number of on-campus "Comedy Night" events, featuring headliners such as Saturday Night Live performer Kevin Nealon. Apatow introduced the acts at these events with short standup routines of his own. He also began volunteering at (and later producing) benefit concerts for HBOs Comic Relief (charity) Comic Relief and performing and seeing standup at the Improv in Hollywood.
He dropped out of college during his second year and later moved into an apartment with comedian Adam Sandler, whom he met at the Improv.
He competed in the Johnnie Walker Comedy Search in 1989 directed by Saturday Night Live short film producer Neal Marshad.
Shortly thereafter, Apatow was introduced by manager Jimmy Miller to Garry Shandling which resulted in Apatow being hired as a writer for the Grammy Awards that year, which Shandling hosted.
In 1992, Apatow appeared on Home Box Office HBOs 15th Annual Young Comedians Special
and shortly afterwards went on to co-create and executive produce The Ben Stiller Show for Fox Broadcasting Company Fox. Apatow had met Stiller outside of an Elvis Costello concert in 1990, and they became friends. Despite critical acclaim and an Emmy Award for Apatow and the rest of the writing staff, Fox canceled the show in 1993.
Apatow went on to join HBOs The Larry Sanders Show in 1993 as a writer and consulting producer, and he later served as a co-executive producer and director of an episode during the shows final season in 1998. He credits Shandling as his mentor for influencing him to write comedy that is more character-driven.
Apatow earned six Emmy nominations for his work on Larry Sanders. During this same time, he worked as a consulting producer and staff writer for the animated show The Critic, starring Jon Lovitz.
In 1995, Apatow co-wrote (with Steve Brill) the feature film Heavyweights. Around the same time, Apatow was hired to produce and do an uncredited re-write of the script for the movie The Cable Guy, which was released in 1996 to mixed reviews.
It was during the pre-production of the film that Apatow met his future wife, actress Leslie Mann.
