Julia Scarlett Elizabeth Louis-Dreyfus ({{IPAc-en ˈ l uː i _ ˈ d r aɪ f ə s}}; born January 13, 1961)
is an American actress, comedian, and producer. In television comedy, she is known for her work in Saturday Night Live (1982–1985),  Seinfeld (1989–1998), The New Adventures of Old Christine (2006–2010), and Veep (2012–present). She is one of the most awarded actors in television history, winning more Primetime Emmy Award Emmy Awards and more Screen Actors Guild Awards than any other performer (eight of the Emmy awards were for acting, tying Cloris Leachman for the most acting Primetime Emmy wins; she has also received three Emmy awards for producing).

Louis-Dreyfus broke into comedy as a performer in The Practical Theatre Company in Chicago, Illinois, which led to her casting in the sketch show Saturday Night Live from 1982 to 1985. Her breakthrough came in 1989 with a nine-season run playing Elaine Benes on Seinfeld, one of the most critically and commercially successful sitcoms of all time. Other notable television roles include Christine Campbell (character) Christine Campbell in The New Adventures of Old Christine, which had a five-season run on CBS, and her role as Selina Meyer in Veep, which has been renewed by HBO for a seventh and final season. Her film roles have included Hannah and Her Sisters (1986), National Lampoons Christmas Vacation (1989), Deconstructing Harry (1997), and Enough Said (film) Enough Said (2013). She voiced roles in the animated films A Bugs Life (1998) and Planes (film) Planes (2013).

Louis-Dreyfus has received eleven Primetime Emmy Awards Emmy Awards, eight for acting and three for producing, with a total of 24 nominations throughout her career. She has also received a Golden Globe Award, nine Screen Actors Guild Awards, five American Comedy Awards, and two Critics Choice Television Awards. Louis-Dreyfus received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2010, and was inducted into the Television Academy Hall of Fame in 2014. In 2016, Time (magazine) Time named Louis-Dreyfus one of the 100 most influential people in the world on the annual Time 100 Time 100 list.
In 2018 it was announced she would be the recipient of the Mark Twain Prize for American Humor, presented by the Kennedy Center as Americas highest comedy honor.
==Early life==
Louis-Dreyfus was born in New York City. Her American-born mother, Judith (née LeFever), was a writer and special needs education special needs tutor,
and her French-born father, Gérard Louis-Dreyfus, chaired Louis Dreyfus Energy Services.

She is a great-great-granddaughter of Léopold Louis-Dreyfus, who in 1851 founded the Louis Dreyfus Group, a French commodities and shipping conglomerate, which members of her family control into the 21st century.
Her paternal grandfather, Pierre Louis-Dreyfus, was president of the Louis Dreyfus Group.
Pierre was from an History of the Jews in Alsace Alsatian Jewish family;
he remained in France during World War II, fighting as a cavalry officer and later in the French Resistance.
Her paternal grandmother was born in America, to parents from Brazil (of German descent) and Mexico; during the 1940s, she moved Julias father to America from France.
In 1962, one year after Louis-Dreyfuss birth, her parents divorced. After relocating to Washington, D.C., when Julia was eight, her mother married L. Thompson Bowles, Dean of the George Washington University School of Medicine George Washington University Medical School.
During her childhood, her mother occasionally took her to Unitarianism Unitarian church services.
Louis-Dreyfus spent her childhood in several states and countries, in connection with her stepfathers work with Project HOPE (USA) Project HOPE, including Vietnam, Colombia, and Tunisia.
She graduated from the Holton-Arms School in Bethesda, Maryland in 1979, and attended Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois. There, she was a member of the Delta Gamma sorority and studied theatre before dropping out to take a professional acting job.
==Career==
===1982–89: Early work and Saturday Night Live===
File:The Golden Jubilee (1982).jpg thumb Louis-Dreyfus as a part of The Practical Theatre Companys "Golden 50th Anniversary Jubilee" in 1982, alongside cast mates Brad Hall, Gary Kroeger and Paul Barrosse

As part of her comedic training, Louis-Dreyfus appeared in The Second City, one of Chicagos best-known improvisational theatre groups whose alumni include Alan Arkin, Steve Carell, Stephen Colbert, Tina Fey, Amy Poehler, Shelley Long, John Belushi, Dan Aykroyd, Bill Murray, John Candy, Chris Farley, Bob Odenkirk and many, many others who went on to become successful comedians and pop culture icons. It was her performance with The Practical Theatre Company at their "Golden 50th Anniversary Jubilee" that led to her being asked to join the cast of NBCs Saturday Night Live at the age of 21.

Louis-Dreyfus was subsequently made into a cast member on Saturday Night Live from 1982 to 1985, becoming the youngest female cast member in the history of the program at that time.
During her time on SNL, she appeared alongside several actors who would later rise to prominence, such as Eddie Murphy, Jim Belushi, Billy Crystal, and Martin Short. It was during her third and final year on SNL that she met writer Larry David during his only year on the show,
who would later co-create Seinfeld.
Louis-Dreyfus has commented that her casting on SNL was a "Cinderella-getting-to-go-to-the-ball kind of experience";
however, she has also admitted that at times it was often quite tense, stating that she "didnt know how to navigate the waters of show business in general and specifically doing a live sketch-comedy show".
Following her 1985 departure from SNL, Louis-Dreyfus appeared in several films, including the Woody Allen-directed Hannah and Her Sisters (1986); Soul Man (film) Soul Man (1986), starring C. Thomas Howell; and National Lampoons Christmas Vacation (1989), in which she starred alongside fellow SNL alum Chevy Chase. In 1987, Louis-Dreyfus appeared in the NBC sitcom pilot The Art of Being Nick, an intended spin-off from Family Ties starring Scott Valentine (actor) Scott Valentine. When the pilot did not make it to series, Louis-Dreyfus was retained by producer Gary David Goldberg for a role on his new sitcom Day by Day (TV series) Day by Day, as the sarcastic and materialistic neighbor, Eileen Swift. Premiering in early 1988, Day by Day aired for two seasons on NBC before being cancelled.
====Recurring characters on Saturday Night Live====
* April May June, a Televangelism televangelist
* Becky, El Dorkos (Gary Kroeger) date
* Consuela, Chi Chis friend and co-host of Lets Watch TV
* Darla in SNL s parody of The Little Rascals
* Weather Woman, a superhero who controls the weather
* Patti Lynn Hunnsucker, a teenage correspondent on Weekend Update

===1990–98: The Seinfeld years===
File:Julia Louis-Dreyfus (2078586922).jpg thumb upright left Louis-Dreyfus at the 47th Primetime Emmy Awards 47th Emmy Awards ceremony in September 1995
In the early 1990s, Louis-Dreyfus became famous for the role of Elaine Benes on NBCs Seinfeld. She played the role for nine seasons, appearing in all but three episodes.
One of the episodes that she did not appear in was the inaugural pilot episode, "The Seinfeld Chronicles", because her character was not initially intended to be a part of the series. It was only after the first episode that NBC executives felt the show was too male-centric, and demanded that creators Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David add a woman to the cast. It was revealed in the commentary on the DVD package that the addition of a female character was the condition for commissioning the show. Louis-Dreyfus won the role over several other actresses who would also eventually enjoy their own TV success, including Patricia Heaton, Rosie ODonnell and Megan Mullally.
On the "Notes About Nothing" featurette on the DVD package, Seinfeld says that Louis-Dreyfus ability to eat a peanut M&amp;Ms M&amp;M without breaking the peanut aptly describes the actress: "She cracks you up without breaking your nuts."

Her performance on the series was met with critical acclaim, and she was a regular winner and nominee at television award shows throughout the 1990s. Her performance earned her two Golden Globe Award nominations, winning once in 1994, nine Screen Actors Guild Award nominations, winning one in 1995 and two in both 1997 and 1998, and seven American Comedy Awards, winning five times in 1993, 1994, 1995, 1997 and 1998. In 1996, she received the Primetime Emmy Award
for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series, an award she was nominated for on seven occasions from 1992 to 1998. After receiving the award, Louis-Dreyfus claimed the win was a "shocker", and that after being in both positions, it was "much better to win than to lose."
In 1998, Seinfeld decided to end the series after nine seasons. The The Finale (Seinfeld) series finale aired on May 14 and was one of the most watched TV events in history, with over 76 million people tuning in.
During her time on Seinfeld she appeared in several films, including Fathers Day (1997 film) Fathers Day, opposite Robin Williams and Billy Crystal, and Woody Allens Oscar-nominated Deconstructing Harry.

===1999–2004: After Seinfeld===
Following a voice role in the successful Disney Pixars A Bugs Life, Louis-Dreyfus lent her voice as Snake (The Simpsons) Snakes girlfriend Gloria in The Simpsons episode "A Hunka Hunka Burns in Love". In 2001, she made several special guest appearances on Seinfeld co-creator Larry Davids show Curb Your Enthusiasm, playing herself fictionally trying to break the "curse" by planning to star in a show in which she would play an actress affected by a Seinfeld-like curse.

After several years away from a regular TV job, Louis-Dreyfus began a new single-camera sitcom, Watching Ellie, which premiered on NBC in February 2002. The series was created by husband Brad Hall, and co-starred Steve Carell and Louis-Dreyfus half-sister Lauren Bowles. The initial premise of the show was to present viewers with a "slice of life" from the goings-on and happenings of the life of Ellie Riggs, a Southern California jazz singer. The first season included a 22-minute countdown kept digitally in the lower left-hand corner of the screen, which many critics panned, claiming it was useless and "did nothing for the show."
Overall, the show received mixed reviews, but debuted strongly with over 16 million viewers tuning in for the series premiere, and maintained an average audience of about 10 million viewers per week.
When the series returned for a second season in the spring of 2003, it suffered a decline in viewership, averaging around eight million viewers per week. The show had undergone a drastic stylistic change between production of seasons one and two. The first season was filmed in the single-camera format, but the second season was presented as a traditional multicamera sitcom filmed in front of a live studio audience.
With dwindling viewership and failing to retain the numbers from its Frasier lead-in, the series was cancelled by NBC in May 2003.
Following NBCs cancellation of Watching Ellie, the media began circulating rumors of a so-called "Seinfeld curse", which claimed that none of the former Seinfeld actors could ever achieve success again in the television industry. Louis-Dreyfus dismissed the rumor as "a made-up thing by the media",
