Julie Deborah Kavner (born September 7, 1950) is an American actress. She first attracted notice for her role as Brenda Morgenstern, the younger sister of Valerie Harpers title character in the sitcom Rhoda, for which she won a Primetime Emmy Award for Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress - Comedy Series Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series. She is best known for her voice role as Marge Simpson on the animated television series The Simpsons. She also voices other characters for the show, including Marge’s mother, Simpson family#Jacqueline Bouvier Jacqueline Bouvier, and sisters Patty and Selma Patty and Selma Bouvier.

Known for her improvisation and distinctive "honeyed gravel voice",
Kavner was cast in her first professional acting role as Brenda Morgenstern in Rhoda in 1974. She received four Primetime Emmy Award nominations for playing the character, winning the award in 1978. Following Rhoda, Kavner was cast in The Tracey Ullman Show, which debuted in 1987. The Tracey Ullman Show included a series of The Simpsons shorts animated shorts about a dysfunctional family. Voices were needed for the shorts, and the producers asked Kavner to voice Marge. The shorts were spun off into The Simpsons.

Kavner has been described as "nearly reclusive"; part of her contract says that she will never have to promote The Simpsons on video. For her work as Marge, Kavner received another Primetime Emmy Award for Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance Outstanding Voice-Over Performance in 1992 and an Annie Award nomination for her performance as the character in The Simpsons Movie.

Typically cast as a "woman who is supportive, sympathetic or self-effacingly funny",
Kavner grew to dislike playing such roles. In 1992, she starred in This Is My Life (1992 film) This Is My Life, her first leading role in a feature film. Kavner has also appeared in live-action roles in six Woody Allen filmography films written by Woody Allen, and in the Adam Sandler comedy Click (2006 film) Click.

==Early life==
Kavner was born in Los Angeles, California, on September 7, 1950,
the second daughter of Rose (1918-2010), a family counselor, and David Kavner (1917-2016), a furniture manufacturer,
and grew up in Southern California. Her family is Jews Jewish. She decided to pursue a career in acting because "There was nothing else I wanted to do, ever".
She attended Beverly Hills High School (which she later admitted she hated), where she was "something of a loner", and unsuccessfully tried out for several plays.
John Ingle, formerly the chairman of the Beverly Hills High School art department, later commented that Kavner was "excellent at improvisation, but she wasnt an ingenue (stock character) ingenue and not that castable at that age".
After graduating from high school, Kavner attended San Diego State University and majored in drama, being cast in several productions including a role as Charlotte Corday in Marat/Sade, becoming known for her improvisation and ability to do both comedy and drama. After graduating in 1971, she got a day job as a typist at the UCLA School of the Arts and Architecture.
==Career==

===Early career===
In 1973, Kavner auditioned for a role as one of Rhoda Morgensterns sisters in The Mary Tyler Moore Show. David Davis, producer of the show, had convinced her to audition for the part, but decided to cast another actress instead.
A year later, Rhoda Morgenstern became the leading character in a spin-off called Rhoda. Kavner was cast in her first professional acting role as Brenda Morgenstern, sister of the eponymous character.
Rhoda ran on CBS from September 9, 1974, to December 1978. She received four Primetime Emmy Award nominations for Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress - Comedy Series Outstanding Continuing Performance by a Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series for playing Brenda, winning in 1978.
She also received four Golden Globe Award nominations.
In 1975, she received Daytime Emmy Award nomination for her starring role in the daytime special The Girl Who Couldnt Lose.
Following Rhoda, Kavner had a guest appearance on Taxi (TV series) Taxi
and appeared in the 1985 comedy Bad Medicine (film) Bad Medicine
as well as the 1987 film Surrender (1987 film) Surrender, both of which were box office failures.
She appeared in the television movies Revenge of the Stepford Wives, No Other Love and A Fine Romance, and shot a television pilot.
She also starred in several stage plays, including a play called It Had to be You
at a dinner theater in Canada, Particular Friendships in New York City in 1981,
and Two for the Seesaw, directed by Burt Reynolds.
Woody Allen first saw Kavner one night while he was watching Rhoda in the 1970s. He thought that she was remarkable and later offered her a role in his 1986 film Hannah and Her Sisters.
Kavner agreed, and credits Allen and the film with rejuvenating her career.
Kavner was then cast as a sidekick to Tracey Ullman in The Tracey Ullman Show, which debuted on Fox Broadcasting Company Fox in 1987. Kavner described the show as, "like being back in school, a chance to play a wide variety of characters, some really vicious people, to not rest on laurels, to not play it safe".
Kavner commented, "What I do is not mimicry or an impersonation, but more of an assimilation. [On The Tracey Ullman Show] we did a lot of looking at people to find out who to base our characters on. We did our homework on our lunch hour."
She received four Primetime Emmy Award nominations for Primetime Emmy Award for Individual Performance in a Variety or Music Program Best Individual Performance in a Variety or Music Program.
===The Simpsons===
File:Julie Kavner.jpg right upright thumb Kavner in 2009
Kavner became most famous for her role as Marge Simpson on the animated television show The Simpsons, a show that continues to the present. The Tracey Ullman Show included The Simpsons shorts a series of animated shorts about the dysfunctional Simpson family. Voices were needed for the shorts, so the producers decided to ask Kavner and fellow cast member Dan Castellaneta to voice Marge and Homer rather than hire more actors.
Kavner has what Hilary de Vries of The New York Times described as a "honeyed gravel voice".
Kavner says her distinctive voice is due to "a bump on [her] vocal cords".
Although Marge is her most famous character, Kavners favorite characters to voice are her sisters Patty and Selma Patty and Selma Bouvier because "theyre really funny and sad at the same time".
Series creator Matt Groening instructed Kavner to voice the duo as characters who "suck the life out of everything".
Both have similar raspy voices, but Pattys voice is more masculine and has a lower register, while Selmas voice is a little sweeter.
Kavner also provides the voices of every other female member of the Bouvier family, including Marges mother Jaqueline Bouvier Jacqueline, Great-Aunt Gladys (a dead relative who was introduced on season fours "Selmas Choice"), and an unnamed grandmother seen on the season six episode "Fear of Flying (The Simpsons) Fear of Flying".
Part of Kavners contract says that she will never have to promote The Simpsons on video and she rarely performs Marges voice in public because she believes it "destroys the illusion. People feel these are real people."
Kavner takes recording sessions seriously, and feels that voice acting is, "a little more limiting than live acting. And I have nothing to do with my characters movement."
Nancy Cartwright, who voices Bart Simpson, said in her book My Life as a 10-Year-Old Boy that Kavner is "a workhorse of an actor" with "extraordinary professionalism and quiet work ethic", and notes that she is rarely late for recording sessions.
Until 1998, Kavner was paid $30,000 per episode. During a pay dispute in 1998, Fox threatened to replace the six main voice actors with new actors, going as far as preparing to cast new voices.
