Katherine Ryan (born 30 June 1983) is a Canadian-Irish comedian, writer, presenter and actress, based in the United Kingdom.
She has appeared on British panel shows including Mock the Week, Never Mind the Buzzcocks, A League of Their Own (UK game show) A League of Their Own, 8 Out of 10 Cats, Would I Lie to You? (TV series) Would I Lie to You?, QI, Just a Minute, Safeword (game show) Safeword, and Have I Got News for You. In 2015, she replaced Steve Jones (presenter) Steve Jones as the presenter of Hair (TV series) Hair on BBC Two. As an actress, she has appeared in the Channel 4 sitcom Campus (TV series) Campus,
BBC Two sitcom Episodes (TV series) Episodes
and Dont Sit in the Front Row with Jack Dee.
As a stand-up comedy stand-up comedian, Ryan has appeared on the BBCs Live at the Apollo (TV series) Live at the Apollo, both as a featured act and as a lead act. For her work, Ryan won the Nivea Funny Women Award, and was also runner-up in the Amused Moose Laugh-Off competition in 2008.
In February 2017, Netflix released Katherine Ryan: In Trouble which features one of her live stand-up performances on a recent UK tour.
==Early life==
Ryans father is a draftsman and owner of an engineering company, who originally emigrated from Ireland to Canada. Her mother is Canadian and owns an IT Consulting company.
Ryan and her two younger sisters were born and raised in Sarnia, Ontario.
The three siblings spent time in Cork (city) Cork, Ireland visiting their paternal grandparents.
Her parents split up when she was 15. When she was 18 years old, she decided to leave home and chose to study city planning at the University of Toronto.{{Citation needed date=February 2017}} While attending university, she worked at Hooters and then began training other waitresses. She was fired from Hooters for writing on a board "club sandwiches not seals".
In her spare time she undertook open mic nights as an alternative form of personal entertainment and by graduation had developed a basic comedic routine.
