Micah Sierra "Katt" Williams
(born September 2, 1971)
<!--- born 1971, not 1973-->
is an United States American stand-up comedian, actor, rapper,
singer, and voice actor. He had a role as Money Mike in Friday After Next, had a stint on Wild n Out, portrayed Bobby Shaw in My Wife and Kids, provided the voice of A Pimp Named Slickback in The Boondocks (TV series) The Boondocks, Seamus in Cats &amp; Dogs: The Revenge of Kitty Galore, and portrayed Lord Have Mercy in Norbit. In 2008, he voiced himself in the video game Grand Theft Auto IV.

==Early life==
Williams was born Micah Sierra Williams on September 2, 1971 in Cincinnati, Ohio. He was raised in Dayton, Ohio.
Williams Emancipation of minors emancipated himself from his parents at the age of 13, moved to Florida, and supported himself as a street vendor.
==Career==

===Stand-up career===
Williams started performing comedy in his Cincinnati neighborhood, Evanston, Cincinnati Evanston.
Williams honed his comic delivery by performing his routine in clubs nationwide, from Oklahoma to Oakland, California Oakland. By 1999, Katt had become an established comic, appearing on stage at the likes of The Improv, The Comedy Club, The Icehouse and The Hollywood Park Casino. Most notably he appeared on Black Entertainment Television BETs Comic View as Katt "In the Hat" Williams.
Williams starred in his first comedy special in 2006 entitled Katt Williams: Live: Let a Playa Play. His second &amp; first HBO stand-up special was 2006s The Pimp Chronicles, Pt. 1, with his comedy piece "This Shit Right Here Nigga, This Shit Right Here Nigga".
In 2007 Williams was offered a movie/standup which he entitled American Hustle (2007 film) American Hustle. The film had critical success and established Williams as a mainstream comedian.
In 2008 Williams released his second HBO comedy special entitled Its Pimpin Pimpin, with Williams doing more Political standup.
In 2012, after a four-year haitus, Williams returned to stand up in his third HBO comedy special, entitled Kattpacalypse.
On December 3, 2012, Williams announced the end of his stand-up comedy career, a day after a bizarre incident in Seattle, Washington that landed him in jail.
However, just 3 days later, Williams announced he was coming out of retirement.
As of late 2013, Williams was on his "Growth Spurt" Tour.
On August 16, 2014, Williams returned with a new HBO special titled Katt Williams: Priceless: Afterlife, which was directed by Spike Lee.
On September 3, 2015, during an interview, Williams would announce and describe the name of his new upcoming tour entitled "Conspiracy Theory" stating, "The conspiracy conversation is a conversation that we are all familiar with. We know that there are conspiracies out there, but this is a conversation that encompasses a lot of things that arent being discussed other places. Thats the basis for all conspiracy theories: the fact that there is hidden information out there, and how our process changes about things that we thought we used to know. We all, at some point, if were are at a certain age, we grew up thinking Pluto was a planet. This is probably going to go down as one of my finest works, just because its a collection of forbidden topics that we cant seem to get answered. I am one of the rare urban public officials. Part of my guarantee in my ticket price is that Im going to be talking about what we are talking about now, and discussing from now to the next time we see [me] again. This is the open discussion that weve had since 2003. This is what it is about."
In 2018, Katt Williams released a new stand up special on Netflix, shot in Jacksonville, Florida, titled Great America.
===Film and television career===
In 2002, Williams made his acting debut on NYPD Blue. He gained notoriety on Wild n Out, in which he appeared for several seasons.
Williams also appeared in the official music video for Wild n Out colleague Nick Cannons single Gigolo (Nick Cannon song) Gigolo in 2003.

In 2007, he provided the voice of A Pimp Named Slickback in The Boondocks (TV series) The Boondocks; he plays himself as an on-stage Stand-up comedy stand-up comedian in Grand Theft Auto IV performing several routines, including an abbreviated version of one of his routines from Katt Williams: American Hustle; and Williams has appeared in several episodes of My Wife and Kids as character Bobby Shaw. He was also the roastmaster of the Comedy Central Roast of Flavor Flav.
Williams has also played supporting characters in films, such as First Sunday and Norbit, but is more widely recognized for his character Money Mike in Friday After Next.
===Music career===
He has also used the Money Mike stage name when rapping for songs by such artists as Baby Bash, The Game (rapper) The Game, and Suga Free. In 2006 Williams joined well known New York rapper Camrons group The Diplomats but was never signed as an official artist for the label.
On January 29, 2009 Williams released his debut studio/live album entitled Its Pimpin Pimpin. On November 19, 2013 Williams &amp; Hell Rell released a diss song to Atlanta rapper Trinidad James entitled "Lames In The Game" due to comments made by the rapper about the state of current Hip Hop music.
==Incidents at live shows==
On August 27, 2011, his performance at the Celebrity Theatre in Phoenix, Arizona was marred by an incident during which Williams responded to a heckler, identified as being of Mexican people Mexican descent, with an angry tirade that included Williams shouting "...so if you love Mexico, bitch, get the fuck over there!"
In an interview following the performance, Williams stated that the incident was precipitated by the heckler. "If a person starts their heckling with f America, then that gives me the right to defend my country," Williams said. Williams offered no apology for his remarks during the performance, stating "I dont think I need to apologize for being pro-American."
Two live performances in November 2012 ended early because of Williams confrontational behavior. A November 1 performance at the Wells Fargo Theatre in Denver ended after Williams jumped off the stage to confront a heckler.
A November 16 performance at the Oracle Arena in Oakland ended after Williams again entered into a profanity-laced confrontation with a heckler and was assisted off stage by his own security staff.
==Legal issues==
On November 13, 2006, Williams was arrested at Los Angeles International Airport after a stolen gun was found in his briefcase.
On December 14, 2006, Williams pleaded no contest to a misdemeanor count of carrying a concealed firearm and was sentenced to three years probation, ordered to pay restitution, and was given credit for the three days he spent in jail.
In November 2010, Williams was arrested by police while working on a film in Coweta County, Georgia. He was accused of stealing $3,500 worth of coins and jewelry. He was released the following day on a $40,000 bond.
Police later charged Williams with burglary and criminal trespass.
<!--video does not appear to be archivable; the page otherwise was archived at https://www.webcitation.org/6hNa7iWbO?url=http://www.worldstarhiphop.com/videos/video.php?v%3DwshhtAV22NQc6IVVh8th on May 9, 2016-->
On June 11, 2011, Williams was arrested in connection with an alleged assault on a tractor driver. The alleged victim said three women approached his tractor at around 4:30 p.m. local time and attacked him with rocks and dirt clods, causing him facial injuries.
Los Angeles County Sheriffs Department officers arrived on the scene and arrested the three women for assault with a deadly weapon and Williams for felony intimidation of a witness.
Williams was booked into jail and released that same night on $50,000 bail.
