years_active  = 1981–2018
  works         = Kevin Spacey filmography Filmography
  awards        = List of awards and nominations received by Kevin Spacey Full list
  website       = {{URL KevinSpacey.com}}}}

Kevin Spacey Fowler {{post-nominals country=GBR size=100% KBEh}} (born July 26, 1959) is an American actor, producer and singer. He began his career as a stage actor during the 1980s before obtaining supporting roles in film and television. He gained critical acclaim in the 1990s that culminated in his first Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for the neo-noir crime thriller The Usual Suspects (1995) and an Academy Award for Best Actor for the midlife crisis-themed drama American Beauty (1999 film) American Beauty (1999).

His other starring roles have included the comedy-drama film Swimming with Sharks (1994), the psychological thriller Seven (1995 film) Seven (1995), the neo-noir crime film L.A. Confidential (film) L.A. Confidential (1997), the drama Pay It Forward (film) Pay It Forward (2000), the science fiction-mystery film K-PAX (film) K-PAX (2001), the musical biopic Beyond the Sea (film) Beyond the Sea (2004), the superhero film Superman Returns (2006), and the action film Baby Driver (2017).

In Broadway theatre, Spacey won a Tony Award in 1991 for his role in Lost in Yonkers. In 2017, he hosted the 71st Tony Awards. He was the artistic director of the Old Vic theatre in London from 2004 until stepping down in mid-2015. From 2013 to 2017, Spacey played Frank Underwood (House of Cards) Frank Underwood in the Netflix political drama series House of Cards (U.S. TV series) House of Cards. For his role as Underwood, he has won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Television Series Drama and two consecutive Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Drama Series Screen Actors Guild Awards for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Drama Series.

In October 2017, Spacey was accused by actor Anthony Rapp of making a sexual advance toward him when Rapp was 14. Shortly after, numerous other men alleged that Spacey had sexually harassed or assaulted them. As a result, Netflix cut all ties with him, shelved his film Gore and removed him from the cast of the last season of House of Cards. He was to appear in Ridley Scotts film All the Money in the World as J. Paul Getty; however, all his scenes were cut from the film, and Christopher Plummer replaced him in reshoots.

==Early life==
Spacey was born in South Orange, New Jersey, to Kathleen Ann (née Knutson), a secretary, and Thomas Geoffrey Fowler, a technical writer and data consultant.
He has an older brother, Randy Fowler, who is a limousine driver and Rod Stewart impersonator in Boise, Idaho, and a sister, Julie Ann Fowler Keir, an office worker.
His family relocated to southern California when Spacey was four years old.
Randy Fowler (from whom Spacey is estranged)
has stated that their father, whom he described as a racist "Nazi supporter", was sexually and physically abusive, and that Spacey had shut down emotionally and become "very sly and smart" to avoid whippings.
Spacey attended Northridge Military Academy, Canoga Park High School in the 10th and 11th grades. He graduated valedictorian co-valedictorian (along with Mare Winningham) of the class of 1977 of Chatsworth High School in Chatsworth, Los Angeles Chatsworth, California.
At Chatsworth, Spacey starred in the schools senior production of The Sound of Music, playing the part of Georg Ludwig von Trapp Captain Georg von Trapp with Winningham as Maria von Trapp. He started using his middle name "Spacey", which is also his paternal grandmothers maiden name.
Spacey had tried to succeed as a comedian for several years before attending the Juilliard School in New York City, as a member of List of Juilliard School people Group 12, where he studied drama with teacher Marian Seldes
between 1979 and 1981. During this time period, he performed stand-up comedy in bowling alley talent contests.
==Career==
{{see also Kevin Spacey filmography List of awards and nominations received by Kevin Spacey}}
===1981–1999===
Spaceys first professional stage appearance was as a spear carrier in a New York Shakespeare Festival performance of Henry VI, Part 1 in 1981.
The following year, he made his first Broadway appearance, as Oswald in a production of Henrik Ibsens Ghosts (play) Ghosts, starring Liv Ullmann. Then he portrayed Philinte in Molières The Misanthrope. In 1984, he appeared in a production of David Rabes Hurlyburly, in which he rotated through each of the male parts (he would later play Mickey in the Hurlyburly (film) film version). Next came Anton Chekhovs The Seagull. In 1986, he appeared in a production of Sleuth (play) Sleuth in a New Jersey dinner theatre.
His prominence as a stage actor began in 1986, when he was cast opposite Jack Lemmon, Peter Gallagher and Bethel Leslie as Jamie, the eldest Tyrone son, in Jonathan Millers lauded production of Eugene ONeills Long Days Journey into Night. Lemmon in particular would become a mentor to him
and was invited, along with Spaceys high school drama teacher, to be present when Spacey received his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 1999.
He made his first major television appearance in the second-season premiere of Crime Story (TV series) Crime Story, playing a Kennedy family Kennedy-esque American senator. Although his interest soon turned to film, Spacey remained actively involved in the live theater community. In 1991, he won a Tony Award for his portrayal of Uncle Louie in Neil Simons Broadway hit Lost in Yonkers. Spaceys father was unconvinced that Spacey could make a career for himself as an actor, and did not change his mind until Spacey became well-known.
Some of Spaceys early roles include a widowed eccentric millionaire on L.A. Law, the television miniseries The Murder of Mary Phagan (1988), opposite Lemmon, and the comedy See No Evil, Hear No Evil (1989). He earned a fan base after playing the criminally insane arms dealer Mel Profitt on the television series Wiseguy. He quickly developed a reputation as a character actor, and was cast in bigger roles, including one-half of a bickering Connecticut couple in the dark comedy film The Ref (1994), a malicious Hollywood studio boss in the satire Swimming with Sharks, and the malevolent office manager in the ensemble film Glengarry Glen Ross (film) Glengarry Glen Ross (1992), gaining him positive notices by critics. His performance as the enigmatic criminal Verbal Kint in 1995s The Usual Suspects won him the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.
Spacey appeared in the 1995 thriller film Seven (1995 film) Seven, making a sudden entrance late in the film as the serial killer John Doe after going unmentioned in the films advertisements and opening credits. His work in Seven, The Usual Suspects and Outbreak (film) Outbreak earned him Best Supporting Actor honors at the 1995 Society of Texas Film Critics Awards 1995 Society of Texas Film Critics Awards.
He remarked in 2013: "I think people just like me evil for some reason. They want me to be a son of a bitch."
Spacey played an egomaniacal district attorney in A Time to Kill (1996 film) A Time to Kill (1996), and founded Trigger Street Productions in 1997, with the purpose of producing and developing entertainment across various media. He made his directorial debut with the film Albino Alligator (1996). The film was a box office bomb, grossing $339,379 with a budget of $6 million, but critics praised Spaceys direction. He also voiced Hopper in the animated film A Bugs Life (1998).
===2000–2010===
File:Spacey_Star.jpg thumb Spaceys star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, laid in 1999
Spacey won universal praise and an Academy Award for Best Actor for his role as a depressed suburban father who re-evaluates his life in 1999s American Beauty (1999 film) American Beauty;
the same year, he was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Spacey won the Laurence Olivier Award for Best Actor and earned another Tony nomination in 1999 for The Iceman Cometh. In 2001, Spacey co-hosted, with Judi Dench, the Unite for the Future Gala, a UK fundraiser for the British victims of September 11 attacks 9/11 and Médecins Sans Frontières at Londons Old Vic Theatre, produced by Harvey Goldsmith and Dominic Madden.
He played a physically and emotionally scarred grade school teacher in Pay It Forward (film) Pay It Forward (2000), a patient in a mental institution who may or may not be an Extraterrestrial life alien in K-PAX (film) K-Pax (2001), and singer Bobby Darin in Beyond the Sea (film) Beyond the Sea (2004). The latter was a lifelong dream project for Spacey, who took on co-writing, directing, co-producing and starring duties in the biography/musical about Darins life, career and relationship with actress Sandra Dee. Facing little interest for backing in the United States, Spacey went to the United Kingdom and Germany for funding. Almost all of the film was made in Berlin.
Spacey provided his own vocals on the Beyond the Sea soundtrack and appeared in several tribute concerts around the time of the films release. He received mostly positive reviews for his singing, as well as a Golden Globe nomination for his performance. However, reviewers criticized the age disparity between Spacey and Darin, noting that Spacey was too old to convincingly portray Darin, particularly during the early stages of the singers life depicted in the film.
File:Kevin Spacey @ San Diego Comic-Con 2008 - b.jpg thumb upright left Spacey at the San Diego Comic-Con 2008
Spacey hosted Saturday Night Live twice: first in 1997 with musical guest Beck and special guests Michael Palin and John Cleese from Monty Pythons Flying Circus and again in May 2006 with musical guest Nelly Furtado. In 2006, Spacey played Lex Luthor in the Bryan Singer superhero film Superman Returns. He was to return for its 2009 sequel, but the series was instead rebooted with 2013 film Man of Steel (film) Man of Steel.
Spacey also appeared in Edison (film) Edison, which received a direct-to-video release in 2006. In 2008, he played an Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT lecturer in the film 21 (2008 film) 21. The film is based on Ben Mezrichs best seller Bringing Down the House (book) Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six MIT Students Who Took Vegas for Millions, a story of student MIT card-counters who used mathematical probability to aid them in card games such as blackjack. In early 2010, Spacey went to China to star in writer-director Dayyan Engs black comedy film Inseparable (film) Inseparable, becoming the first Hollywood actor to star in a fully Chinese-funded film.
In September 2006, Spacey said that he intended to take up British citizenship when it is offered to him.
When asked about the United Kingdom European Union membership referendum, 2016 UKs referendum on whether or not to leave the European Union in 2016, Spacey replied "I appreciate you asking me the question, but I am not a British citizen, I am a resident of Great Britain. And I have never in my 12 years ever gotten involved in politics in Great Britain. I think its inappropriate for me as a, really as a guest, in Great Britain, so Ill leave that to the British people."
On June 16, 2016, Spacey was awarded an honorary knighthood for his services to theatre. The honor, Order of the British Empire Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire, was given at Clarence House by Charles, Prince of Wales Prince Charles. While Spacey will be permitted to add the post-nominal letters, KBE, to his name, as a non-British citizen the award is honorary and he will not be able to style himself as "Sir Kevin".
Spacey had previously been awarded the lesser rank of honorary Commander of the Order of the British Empire for services to drama in 2010.
Spacey is well known in Hollywood for his impressionist (entertainment) impressions. When he appeared on Inside the Actors Studio, he imitated (at host James Liptons request) James Stewart, Johnny Carson, Katharine Hepburn, Clint Eastwood, John Gielgud, Marlon Brando, Christopher Walken, Al Pacino and Jack Lemmon.
