Kurt Braunohler (born February 22, 1976) is an American comedian and host of The K Ohle with Kurt Braunohler podcast on the Nerdist Industries Nerdist network. He was previously the host of IFCs comedy game show Bunk (TV Series) Bunk and has appeared on Comedy Central, This American Life, and Radiolab.  Braunohler is a frequent collaborator with Kristen Schaal, with whom he created the web series Penelope Princess of Pets.
==Career==
Braunohlers first major project was the performance project Kurtbot. This was a series of street comedy sketches along with an accompanying website.  He had more success with the street theatre project Chengwin. His work with the group earned a number of awards, including being voted by the Village Voice as "Best Hilarious Insane Guerilla Theatre" in 2008.

In 2004, Braunohler began the Neutrino Video Projects. His work with the group garnered widespread praise, and in 2005 the group traveled to the HBO US Comedy Arts Festival in Aspen, as well as to the Edinburgh Festival Fringe in Scotland. The Neutrino Video Projects were awarded "Improv Ensemble of the Year" by the Chicago Improv Festival in 2004.

In 2005, Braunohler began co-hosting Hot Tub with Kurt and Kristen Hot Tub with Kristen Schaal, which was voted “Best Variety Show of 2005” by Time Out NY’s reader poll.

In 2017, Braunohler had a supporting role in widely acclaimed movie The Big Sick.
===Standup===
File:Kurt Braunohler Kristen Schaal (4463668767).jpg left thumb Braunohler and Kristen Schaal Schaal on stage at SXSW SXSW Comedy Fest, 2010 
Braunohler was named one of Variety’s “Top 10 Comics to Watch” in 2012, as well as Time Out NY’s “50 Funniest New Yorkers”.
Among other venues Braunohler has performed at the HBO US Comedy Arts Festival, The Comedy Festival, Just for Laughs Comedy Festival in Montreal and Chicago, New York Comedy Festival (named a “Comic to Watch”), SXSW, Bonnaroo, All Tomorrow’s Parties, the Edinburgh Fringe Festival (IF.Comedy Award nominee), Melbourne Comedy Festival (Barry Award Winner), the HBO Vegas Comedy Festival, the Chicago Improv Festival (“Improv Ensemble of the Year” Award Winner).
Braunohlers debut comedy album, How Do I Land? was released by Kill Rock Stars on August 20, 2013.
The album was recorded live on February 13, 2013 in Seattle, Washington and February 14, 2013 in Portland, Oregon.
In March 2013, Braunohler completed a successful $4,000 Kickstarter campaign by hiring a professional pilot to skywrite “How Do I Land?” in Southern California, in promotion of the album.
===Radio and podcasts===
In February 2012, Braunohler was featured episode 457 of This American Life, "What I Did For Love," where he discussed his experience bringing the concept of rumspringa to his monogamous relationship of 13 years.
He and his comedy partner Kristen Schaal also appeared on the "Loops" episode of Radiolab in October 2011, and in 2009 the two hosted "High Five! with Kurt and Kristen" on the Sirius XM Satellite Radio Raw Dog Channel.
Braunohler currently hosts The K Ohle with Kurt Braunohler podcast on the Nerdist Industries Nerdist network.
In 2014, Braunohler guest starred in the episode "Namer vs. Namer" of John Hodgmans podcast Judge John Hodgman.
===TV and digital media===
In 2012 Braunohler hosted the improv game show Bunk (TV series) Bunk on the Independent Film Channel. Since 2012 Braunohler has been an occasional voice contributor to Foxs animated series Bobs Burgers, and he is a frequent roundtable guest on the E! network show Chelsea Lately. He has also performed on Comedy Centrals John Oliver Presents.
Braunohler was active on Vine (app) Vine, and was named one of the best comedians using the video phone app by Funny or Die.
Braunohlers first television special premiered on Comedy Central on March 3, 2017.
==Personal life==
Braunohler was born in Neptune Township, New Jersey Neptune, New Jersey. He attended Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland. He became engaged to Lauren Cook in April 2014, and the two were married on September 28, 2014.
==Discography==
*How Do I Land? (2013)
*Trust Me (2017)
