Lawrence Joseph Campbell (born November 29, 1970) is an American actor and comedian best known for his role as "Andy" on the American Broadcasting Company ABC sitcom According to Jim.

==Early life==
Born in Cadillac, Michigan, Campbell graduated high school from Pine River Area Schools and received a Bachelor of Applied Arts in theater at Central Michigan University and a Master of Arts in theater at Wayne State University. In 2005, Campbell returned to Central Michigan University to serve as the grand marshal of the homecoming parade.

==Career==
His first high-profile TV guest star role probably was as "the fan" in a February 2000 episode of Friends. The next year he was cast as "Andy" on According to Jim. He has also appeared in movies, such as Wedding Crashers, Showtime (film) Showtime, as "locker room cop #2," and in commercials, such as Ballpark hot dog commercials as "Frank," and a Public service announcement PSA for the V-chip on ABC, as Jims "Andy." In 2007, he appeared in two episodes of My Name Is Earl as Ron, a security prison guard.  He also appeared as a cop on the take in a few episodes of Weeds (TV series) Weeds. Campbell also played Detective Crockers in the 2007 horror film Drive-Thru (film) Drive-Thru. In the same year he also had a guest appearance on the show Supernatural (U.S. TV series) Supernatural  in the episode "Bedtime Stories (Supernatural) Bedtime Stories".

Campbell performed Improvisational theatre improvisational comedy with The Second City the Second City Detroit, and it was there where he was discovered when Bob Saget performed with the group and was impressed enough by Campbell to let his manager know about him. Campbell also dabbles in playwriting, hes a member of the comedy troupe the 313, and he has starred in a one-man play he wrote, Terry vs. the Towel Lady at Planet Ant in Hamtramck, Michigan.

As of late, Campbell had a small participation on Showtime (TV network) Showtimes Weeds (TV series) Weeds. Larry also appeared as Pete Denham in the 2010 film "Killers" and as Vigs in "Fitful." Also, he appeared in the Disney Channel shows I Didnt Do It (TV Series) I Didnt Do It as Deputy Doug, Good Luck Charlie as Hugo, Dog With a Blog as "The Hawk", Best Friends Whenever as Mr. Doyle, and CBSs New Adventures of Old Christine and Rules of Engagement (TV series) Rules of Engagement. Campbell played the role of Hog Head in the 2011 film Hall Pass.

He had a recurring role in the series The Protector (TV series) The Protector.  In 2013, he began touring with a group of comedians known as "Jim Belushi and the Chicago Board of Comedy."  The group consists of Jim Belushi Belushi, Campbell, Belushis son Robert Belushi Robert, Jon Barinholtz and Brad Morris.

In 2015 Campbell appears in the Draft Kings commercial titled "The Sleeper".

In 2017 Campbell had a recurring role as Chief Engineer Newton in the first season of the Fox sci-fi TV series The Orville, at the end of which his character was written out.
