Lewis Niles Black
(born August 30, 1948)
is an American stand-up comedian, author, playwright, social critic and actor. He is best known for his angry demeanour and belligerent comedic style, in which he often simulates having a mental breakdown. His comedy routines often escalate into angry rants about history, politics, religion, or any other cultural trends. He hosted the Comedy Central series Lewis Blacks Root of All Evil and makes regular appearances on The Daily Show The Daily Show with Trevor Noah delivering his "The Daily Show recurring elements#Back in Black with Lewis Black Back in Black" commentary segment, which he has been doing since The Daily Show was hosted by Craig Kilborn.

When not on the road performing, Black resides in Manhattan, but also maintains a residence in Chapel Hill, North Carolina Chapel Hill, North Carolina. He is also a spokesman for the Aruba Tourism Authority, appearing in television ads that first aired in late 2009 and 2010, as well as the voice of Anger in 2015s Pixar film, Inside Out (2015 film) Inside Out. He was voted 51st of the 100 greatest stand-up comedians of all time by Comedy Central in 2004; he was voted 5th in Comedy Centrals Stand Up Showdown in 2008 and 11th in 2010. Black has served as an "ambassador for voting rights" for the American Civil Liberties Union, since 2013.
==Early life==
Black was born in Washington, D.C.,
the son of Jeannette, a teacher, and Sam Black, an artist and mechanical engineer.
He was raised in a middle-class Jewish family in Silver Spring, Maryland,
graduating from Springbrook High School in 1966.
Black recounts in his book Nothings Sacred that he scored highly on the math section of his SAT exam and later applied to Yale, Princeton University Princeton, Brown University Brown, Amherst College Amherst, Williams College Williams, and Georgetown University Georgetown. Every college he applied to except Georgetown rejected him, and by that point he had decided he did not want to go there, so he spent a year at University of Maryland before transferring to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. There, he studied playwriting and was a brother of Pi Lambda Phi International Fraternities and sororities fraternity and a member of Student Congress.
After graduating in 1970, he returned to Washington, where he worked at the Appalachian Regional Commission, wrote plays, and performed stand-up comedy at the Brickskeller in Dupont Circle.
