Louis Perry "Louie" Anderson (born March 24, 1953) is an American stand-up comedy stand-up comedian,
actor and television host. Anderson created the cartoon series Life with Louie, has written four books including Hey Mom: Stories for My Mother, But You Can Read Them Too published in 2018. He was the initial host of the third revival of the game show Family Feud from 1999 to 2002.
For his performance on the FX (TV channel) FX comedy television series Baskets (TV series) Baskets, Anderson received three consecutive Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series nominations and won once in September 2016.

==Early life==
Anderson was born and raised in Saint Paul, Minnesota, the son of Ora Zella (née Prouty) and Louis William Anderson.
Anderson is the second youngest of 11 children in his family. In a 2016 interview on WTF with Marc Maron, Anderson revealed that his mother actually gave birth to 16 children, but five of them — the first baby and then two sets of twins — died in childbirth.
Anderson has described his father as "abusive."
Anderson went to Johnson Senior High School (Saint Paul, Minnesota) Johnson Senior High in Saint Paul.
==Career==
On November 20, 1984, Anderson made his network debut as a stand-up comedy stand-up comedian on The Tonight Show.
In late 1985, Anderson was cast as Lou Appleton alongside Bronson Pinchot on the Television pilot pilot episode of Perfect Strangers (TV series) Perfect Strangers for American Broadcasting Company ABC (which was known in this early stage as The Greenhorn). When the show was picked up, Anderson was replaced by Mark Linn-Baker in the role of Appleton (whose first name was then changed from Lou to Larry) as the producers didnt think the chemistry between Anderson and Pinchot was quite right. The show ran for eight seasons on ABC.

In 1986, Anderson had a small role in the singing-telegram scene in Ferris Buellers Day Off.
In 1987, Anderson appeared in a comedy special on Showtime (TV network) Showtime.
In 1988, Anderson played a role in John Landis film Coming to America, which starred Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall;
