Lucille Désirée Ball (August 6, 1911 – April 26, 1989) was an American actress, comedian, model, film-studio executive, and producer.  She was the star of the self-produced sitcoms I Love Lucy, The Lucy–Desi Comedy Hour, The Lucy Show, Heres Lucy, and Life with Lucy.
Balls career began in 1929 when she landed work as a model. Shortly thereafter, she began her performing career on Broadway theatre Broadway using the stage names Diane Belmont and Dianne Belmont. She later appeared in several minor film roles in the 1930s and 1940s as a contract player for RKO Radio Pictures, being cast as a chorus girl or in similar roles. During this time, she met Cuban bandleader Desi Arnaz, and the two Elopement (marriage) eloped in November 1940. In the 1950s, Ball ventured into television. In 1951, she and Arnaz created the sitcom I Love Lucy, a series that became one of the most beloved programs in television history. The same year, Ball gave birth to their first child, Lucie Arnaz,
followed by  Desi Arnaz Jr. in 1953.
Ball and Arnaz divorced in May 1960, and she married comedian Gary Morton in 1961.{{sfn Sanders Gilbert 1993 p=216}}

In 1962, Ball became the first woman to run a major television studio, Desilu Productions, which produced many popular television series, including Mission: Impossible and Star Trek: The Original Series Star Trek.
Ball did not back away from acting completely.  She appeared in film and television roles for the rest of her career until her death in April 1989 from an Dissecting aortic aneurysm abdominal aortic dissection at the age of 77.
Ball was nominated for 13 Primetime Emmy Awards, winning four times.
In 1977, Ball was among the first recipients of the Women in Film Women in Film Crystal + Lucy Awards#THE CRYSTAL AWARD Crystal Award.
She was the recipient of the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award in 1979,
inducted into the Television Hall of Fame in 1984, the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Kennedy Center Honors in 1986,
and the Governors Award from the Academy of Television Arts &amp; Sciences in 1989.
==Early life==
Born at 69 Stewart Avenue, Jamestown, New York,
Lucille Désirée Ball was the daughter of Henry Durrell Ball (1887–1915) and Désirée "DeDe" Evelyn Ball (née Hunt; 1892–1977). Her family lived in Wyandotte, Michigan for a time.
She sometimes later claimed that she had been born in Butte, Montana where her grandparents had lived.
A number of magazines reported inaccurately that she had decided that Montana was a more romantic place to be born than New York and repeated a fantasy of a "western childhood". But her father had moved the family to Anaconda, Montana for his work, where they lived briefly, among other places.
Her family belonged to the Baptist church. Her ancestors were mostly English people English, but a few were Scottish-Americans Scottish, French American French, and Irish Americans Irish.{{sfn Kanfer 2003 p=10}}{{sfn Ball 1997 pp=168–69}} Some were among the earliest settlers in the Thirteen Colonies, including Elder John Crandall of Westerly, Rhode Island, and Edmund Rice (1638) Edmund Rice, an early emigrant from England to the Massachusetts Bay Colony.
When Lucille was three years old, her 27-year-old father died of typhoid fever. Henry Ball was a lineman (technician) lineman for Bell Telephone Company and was frequently transferred. The family had moved from Jamestown to Anaconda, Montana, and later to Trenton, New Jersey.
Her father contracted typhoid and died in February 1915 while DeDe Ball was pregnant with her second child, Fred Ball Frederick.  Lucille Ball recalled little from the day her father died, but remembered a bird getting trapped in the house. From that day forward, she suffered from ornithophobia.{{sfn Kanfer 2003 p=12}}

After Balls father died, her mother returned to New York. Ball and her brother, Fred Henry Ball (1915–2007), were raised by their mother and maternal grandparents in Celoron, New York, a summer resort village on Lake Chautauqua, 2.5 miles west of downtown Jamestown.
Lucy loved Celoron Park, one of the best amusement areas in the United States at that time. Its boardwalk had a ramp to the lake that served as a childrens slide, the Pier Ballroom, a roller-coaster, a bandstand, and a stage where vaudeville concerts and regular theatrical shows were presented which made Celoron Park an entertainment destination.
Four years after Henry Balls death, DeDe Ball married Edward Peterson. While her mother and stepfather looked for work in another city, Petersons parents cared for her and her brother. Balls step-grandparents were a puritanical Sweden Swedish couple who banished all mirrors from the house except one over the bathroom sink. When the young Ball was caught admiring herself in it, she was severely chastised for being vain. This period of time affected Ball so deeply that, in later life, she claimed that it lasted seven or eight years.{{sfn Harris 1991 pp=23-24}}

Peterson was a Shriners Shriner. When his organization needed female entertainers for the chorus line of their next show, he encouraged his 12-year-old stepdaughter to audition.{{sfn Kanfer 2003 p=16}} While Ball was onstage, she realized performing was a great way to gain praise and recognition. Her appetite for recognition was awakened at an early age.{{sfn Kanfer 2003 p=20}} In 1927, her family suffered misfortune. Their house and furnishings were lost to settle a financial legal judgment after a neighborhood boy was accidentally shot and paralyzed by someone target shooting in their yard under the supervision of Balls grandfather. The family subsequently moved into a small apartment in Jamestown.{{sfn Ball 1996 p=41}}

==Career==
===Teenage years and early career===
In 1925, Ball, then only 14, started dating Johnny DeVita, a 21-year-old local hoodlum. DeDe was unhappy with the relationship, but unable to influence her daughter to end it. She expected the romance to burn out in a few weeks, but that did not happen. After about a year, DeDe tried to separate them by exploiting Lucilles desire to be in show business. Despite the familys meager finances, she arranged for Lucille to attend the John Murray Anderson School for the Dramatic Arts, in New York City,{{sfn Brady 2001 p=20}}{{sfn Kanfer 2003 p=24}} where Bette Davis was a fellow student. Ball later said about that time in her life, "All I learned in drama school was how to be frightened."{{sfn Kanfer 2003 p=205}} Balls instructors felt she would not be successful in the entertainment business, and were not afraid to say this in front of her.

In the face of this harsh criticism, Ball was determined to prove her teachers wrong and returned to New York City in 1928. That same year, she began working for Hattie Carnegie as an in-house model. Carnegie ordered Ball to dye her then-brown hair blonde, and Ball complied. Of this time in her life, Ball said, "Hattie taught me how to slouch properly in a $1,000 hand-sewn sequin dress and how to wear a $40,000 sable coat as casually as rabbit."{{sfn Kanfer 2003 p=30}}
Balls career was thriving when she became ill with rheumatoid arthritis and was unable to work for two years.
In 1932, she moved back to New York City to resume her pursuit of an acting career and supported herself again by working for Carnegie{{sfn Brady 2001 p=33}} and as the Chesterfield (cigarette) Chesterfield cigarette girl (person) cigarette girl. Using the name Diane (sometimes spelled Dianne) Belmont, she started getting chorus work on Broadway,{{sfn Kanfer 2003 p=28}} but it was not lasting. Ball was hired – but then quickly fired – by theatre impresario Earl Carroll, from his Vanities, and by Florenz Ziegfeld, from a touring company of Rio Rita (musical) Rio Rita.
===Hollywood===
After an uncredited stint as a Goldwyn Girls Goldwyn Girl in Roman Scandals (1933), starring Eddie Cantor and Gloria Stuart, Ball moved permanently to Hollywood to appear in films. She had many small movie roles in the 1930s as a contract player for RKO Radio Pictures, including a two-reel comedy short with the Three Stooges (Three Little Pigskins, 1934) and a movie with the Marx Brothers (Room Service (1938 film) Room Service, 1938). She also appeared as one of the featured models in the Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers film Roberta (1935 film) Roberta (1935), as the flower girl in Top Hat (1935), and in a brief supporting role at the beginning of Follow the Fleet (1936),
another Astaire-Rogers film. Ball and Ginger Rogers, who were distant maternal cousins, played aspiring actresses in the film Stage Door (1937).
In 1936, she landed the role she hoped would lead her to Broadway, in the Bartlett Cormack play Hey Diddle Diddle, a comedy set in a Duplex (building) duplex apartment in Hollywood. The play premiered in Princeton, New Jersey, on January 21, 1937, with Ball playing the part of Julie Tucker, "one of three roommates coping with neurotic directors, confused executives, and grasping stars, who interfere with the girls ability to get ahead".
The play received good reviews, but problems existed, chiefly with its star, Conway Tearle, who was in poor health. Cormack wanted to replace him, but the producer, Anne Nichols, said the fault lay with the character and insisted that the part needed to be reshaped and rewritten. The two were unable to agree on a solution. The play was scheduled to open on Broadway at the Vanderbilt Theatre, but closed after one week in Washington, DC, when Tearle suddenly became gravely ill.{{sfn Brady 2001 pp=73–74}}

Ball later auditioned for the role of Scarlett OHara for Gone with the Wind (film) Gone with the Wind (1939), but Vivien Leigh got the part, winning an Academy Award for Best Actress for her role.
Ball signed with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in the 1940s, but never achieved major stardom there.
She was known in many Hollywood circles as "Queen of the Bs"{{citation needed date=December 2014}} – a title previously held by Fay Wray – starring in a number of B movies (Hollywood Golden Age) B-movies, such as Five Came Back (1939). Like many budding actresses, Ball picked up radio work to supplement her income and gain exposure. In 1937, she appeared regularly on The Phil Baker (comedian) Phil Baker Show.

When its run ended in 1938, Ball joined the cast of The Wonder Show starring Jack Haley (best remembered as the Tin Woodman in The Wizard of Oz (1939 film) The Wizard of Oz, 1939). There began her 50-year professional relationship with the shows announcer, Gale Gordon. The Wonder Show lasted one season, with the final episode airing on April 7, 1939.
MGM producer Arthur Freed purchased the Broadway hit musical play DuBarry Was a Lady (film) DuBarry Was a Lady (1943) especially for Ann Sothern, but when she turned down the part, that plum role went to Ball, Sotherns real-life best friend. In 1946, Ball starred in Lover Come Back (1946 film) Lover Come Back. In 1947, she appeared in the murder mystery Lured as Sandra Carpenter, a Taxi dancer in London.
===I Love Lucy and Desilu===
File:Lucy in scotland 1956.JPG thumb right A scene from the I Love Lucy episode "Lucy Goes to Scotland", 1956
File:Lucille Ball John Wayne 1955.JPG thumb right With John Wayne in I Love Lucy, 1955
In 1948, Ball was cast as Liz Cugat (later "Cooper"), a wacky wife, in My Favorite Husband, an audio program for CBS Radio.
The show was successful, and CBS asked her to develop it for television. She agreed, but insisted on working with her real-life husband, Cuban bandleader Desi Arnaz. CBS executives were reluctant, thinking the public would not accept an All-American redhead and a Cuban as a couple. CBS was initially unimpressed with the pilot episode, produced by the couples Desilu Productions company. The pair went on the road with a vaudeville act, in which Lucy played the zany housewife, wanting to get into Arnazs show. Given the great success of the tour, CBS put I Love Lucy into their lineup.
I Love Lucy was not only a star vehicle for Lucille Ball, but also a potential means for her to salvage her marriage to Arnaz. Their relationship had become badly strained, in part because of their hectic performing schedules, which often kept them apart, but mostly due to Desis attraction to other women.{{citation needed date=December 2017}}

Along the way, Ball created a television dynasty and achieved several firsts. She was the first woman to head a TV production company: Desilu, which she had formed with Arnaz. After their divorce, she bought out his share and became a very actively engaged studio head.
Desilu and I Love Lucy pioneered a number of methods still in use in TV production today, such as filming before a live studio audience with a number of cameras, and distinct Stage set sets, adjacent to each other.
During this time, Ball taught a 32-week comedy workshop at the Brandeis-Bardin Institute. She was quoted as saying, "You cannot teach someone comedy; either they have it or they dont."{{sfn Karol 2004 p=201}}

During the run of I Love Lucy, Ball and Arnaz wanted to remain in their Los Angeles home, but Time zones in the U.S. time-zone logistics made that impossible. Since prime time in L.A. was too late at night on the East Coast of the United States East Coast to air a major network series, filming in California would have meant giving most of the TV audience an inferior kinescope picture — and, at least, a day later.
Sponsor Philip Morris USA Philip Morris did not want to show day-old kinescopes to major East Coast markets, nor did they want to pay the extra cost that filming, processing, and editing would require. So, the company pressured Ball and Arnaz to relocate to New York City. The couple offered to take a pay cut to finance filming, on the condition that Desilu would retain the rights of each episode once it aired. CBS agreed to relinquish the post-first-broadcast rights to Desilu, not realizing they were giving up a valuable and enduring asset. In 1957, CBS bought back the rights for $1,000,000 (${{Formatprice {{inflation US 1000000 1957}}}} in todays terms), providing Ball and Arnazs down payment for the purchase of the former RKO Pictures studios, which they turned into Desilu Studios.
I Love Lucy dominated U.S. ratings for most of its run. (An attempt was also made, with the same cast and writers, to adapt the show for radio. The pilot adapted the famous "Breaking the Lease" episode, in which the Ricardos and Mertzes argue, and the Ricardos threaten to move, but find themselves stuck in a firm lease. The resulting radio audition disc has survived, but never aired.)
A scene in which Lucy and Ricky practice the Tango (dance) tango, in the episode "Lucy Does The Tango", evoked the longest recorded studio audience laugh in the history of the show — so long that the sound editor had to cut that section of the soundtrack in half.
During the shows production breaks, Lucy and Desi starred together in two feature films: The Long, Long Trailer (1954) and Forever, Darling (1956). After I Love Lucy ended its run in 1957, the main cast continued to appear in occasional hour-long specials under the title The Lucy–Desi Comedy Hour until 1960.{{citation needed date=December 2017}}

Desilu produced several other popular shows, such as The Untouchables (1959 TV series) The Untouchables, Star Trek: The Original Series Star Trek, and Mission: Impossible. The studio was eventually sold in 1967 for $17,000,000 (${{Formatprice {{inflation US 17000000 1967}}}} in todays terms) and merged into Paramount Pictures.
==Activities 1960-1977==
The 1960 Broadway musical Wildcat ended its run early when Ball became too ill {{clarify date=January 2018}} to continue in the show.{{sfn Kanfer 2003 p=220}} The show was the source of the song she made famous, "Hey, Look Me Over", which she performed with Paula Stewart on The Ed Sullivan Show. Ball hosted a CBS Radio talk show entitled Lets Talk to Lucy in 1964–65. She also made a few more movies including Yours, Mine and Ours (1968 film) Yours, Mine, and Ours (1968), and the musical Mame (film) Mame (1974), and two more successful long-running sitcoms for CBS: The Lucy Show (1962–68), which costarred Vivian Vance and Gale Gordon, and Heres Lucy (1968–74), which also featured Gordon, as well as Lucys real-life children, Lucie Arnaz and Desi Arnaz, Jr. She appeared on the Dick Cavett show in 1974 and spoke of her history and life with Arnaz.{{citation needed date=January 2018}}
 
Balls close friends in the business included perennial co-star Vivian Vance and film stars Judy Garland, Ann Sothern, and Ginger Rogers, and comedic television performers Jack Benny, Barbara Pepper, Mary Wickes and Mary Jane Croft; all except Garland appeared at least once on her various series. Former Broadway co-stars Keith Andes and Paula Stewart also appeared at least once on her later sitcoms, as did Joan Blondell, Rich Little and Ann-Margret. Ball mentored actress and singer Carole Cook, and befriended Barbara Eden, when Eden appeared on an episode of I Love Lucy.{{citation needed date=January 2018}}

In 1966, Ball became a friend and mentor to Carol Burnett. After having guested on Burnetts highly successful CBS-TV special Carol + 2 and having the younger performer reciprocate by appearing on The Lucy Show, Ball reportedly offered Burnett her own sitcom called Heres Agnes, to be produced by Desilu Productions. Burnett declined the offer, not wanting to commit herself to a weekly series. The two remained close friends until Balls death in 1989. Ball sent flowers every year on Burnetts birthday. When Burnett awoke on the day of her 56th birthday in 1989, she discovered via the morning news that Lucille Ball had died. Later that afternoon, flowers arrived at Burnetts house with a note reading, "Happy Birthday, Kid. Love, Lucy."
Ball was originally considered by Frank Sinatra for the role of Mrs. Iselin in the Cold War thriller The Manchurian Candidate (1962 film) The Manchurian Candidate. Director/producer John Frankenheimer, however, had worked with Angela Lansbury in a mother role in All Fall Down (film) All Fall Down and insisted on having her for the part.
Ball was the lead actress in a number of comedy television specials to about 1980, including Lucy Calls the President which featured Vivian Vance, Gale Gordon and Mary Jane Croft, and Lucy Moves to NBC, a special depicting a fictionalization of her move to the NBC television network.
File:One of the last photographs of Lucille Ball (210262351).jpg alt=An aged Ball standing in a crowd of celebrities, wearing a black and gold sequinned dress with her characteristic red hair, looking fragile. thumb right Ball at her last public appearance at the 61st Academy Awards in 1989, four weeks before her death: Balls husband Gary Morton can be seen on the left side of the photograph.

== 1980s ==
During the mid-1980s, Ball attempted to resurrect her television career. In 1982, she hosted a two-part Threes Company retrospective, showing film clips clips from the shows first five seasons, summarizing memorable plotlines, and commenting on her love of the show.
A 1985 dramatic made-for-TV film about an elderly homeless woman, Stone Pillow, received mixed reviews. Her 1986 sitcom comeback Life with Lucy, costarring her longtime Foil (literature) foil Gale Gordon and co-produced by Ball, Gary Morton, and prolific producer/former actor Aaron Spelling was cancelled less than two months into its run by American Broadcasting Company ABC.
In February 1988, Ball was named the Hasty Pudding Woman of the Year.
In May 1988, Ball was hospitalized after suffering a mild heart attack.
Her last public appearance, just one month before her death, was at the 1989 Academy Awards telecast in which she and fellow presenter Bob Hope were given a standing ovation.
==Testimony before the House Committee on Un-American Activities==
When Ball registered to vote in 1936, she listed her party affiliation as Communist.
(She was registered as a Communist in 1938 as well.)
To sponsor the Communist Party USA Communist Partys 1936 candidate for the California State Assemblys Californias 57th State Assembly district 57th District, Ball signed a certificate stating, "I am registered as affiliated with the Communist Party."
The same year, she was appointed to the State Central Committee of the Communist Party of California, according to records of the California Secretary of State. In 1937, Hollywood writer Rena Vale, a self-identified former Communist, attended a Communist Party new members class at Balls home, according to Vales testimony before the United States House of Representatives Special House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC), on July 22, 1940.
Two years later, Vale affirmed this testimony in a sworn deposition:{{quote Within a few days after my third application to join the Communist Party was made, I received a notice to attend a meeting on North Ogden Drive, Hollywood; although it was a typed, unsigned note, merely requesting my presence at the address at 8 oclock in the evening on a given day, I knew it was the long-awaited notice to attend Communist Party new members classes ... on arrival at this address I found several others present; an elderly man informed us that we were the guests of the screen actress, Lucille Ball, and showed us various pictures, books, and other objects to establish that fact, and stated she was glad to loan her home for a Communist Party new members class. Affidavit of Rena M. Vale, November 23, 1942. Joint Fact-Finding Committee on Un-American Activities in California.}}

In a 1944 British Pathé newsreel, titled Fund Raising for Roosevelt, Ball was featured prominently among several stage and film stars at events in support of President Franklin D. Roosevelts fundraising campaign for the March of Dimes.
She stated that in the 1952 US Presidential Election, she voted for Republican Party (United States) Republican Dwight Eisenhower.

On September 4, 1953, Ball met privately with HUAC investigator William A. Wheeler in Hollywood and gave him sealed testimony. She stated that she had registered to vote as a Communist "or intended to vote the Communist Party ticket" in 1936 at her socialist grandfathers insistence.
She stated she "at no time intended to vote as a Communist", {{quote Ball stated she has never been a member of the Communist Party "to her knowledge" ... [She] did not know whether or not any meetings were ever held at her home at 1344 North Ogden Drive; stated... [that if she had been appointed] as a delegate to the State Central Committee of the Communist Party of California in 1936 it was done without her knowledge or consent; [and stated that she] did not recall signing the document sponsoring EMIL FREED for the Communist Party nomination to the office of member of the assembly for the 57th District ... A review of the subjects file reflects no activity that would warrant her inclusion on the Security Index.
}}

Immediately before the filming of episode 68 ("The Girls Go Into Business") of I Love Lucy, Desi Arnaz, instead of his usual audience warm-up, told the audience about Lucy and her grandfather. Reusing the line he had first given to Hedda Hopper in an interview, he quipped: "The only thing red about Lucy is her hair, and even that is not legitimate."
==Personal life==
===Marriage, children, and divorce===
In 1940, Ball met Cuban-born bandleader Desi Arnaz while filming the Rodgers and Hart stage hit Too Many Girls (musical) Too Many Girls. When they met again on the second day, the two connected immediately and eloped the same year. Although Arnaz was drafted into the United States Army Army in 1942, he ended up being classified for limited service due to a knee injury.
As a result, Arnaz stayed in Los Angeles, organizing and performing USO shows for wounded G.I. (military) GIs being brought back from the Pacific.

Ball filed for divorce in 1944, going so far as obtaining an interlocutory decree; however, she and Arnaz reconciled, which precluded the entry of a final decree.{{citation needed date=December 2016}}

File:Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz 1955.jpg alt=Colored glamorous shot of Lucille Ball and Arnaz standing. Both are smiling to the front. Ball at the left wears a ceremonial gown; Arnaz at right wears a tuxedo. thumb Ball with husband Desi Arnaz in 1950s
On July 17, 1951, one month before her 40th birthday, Ball gave birth to daughter Lucie Arnaz Lucie Désirée Arnaz.
A year and a half later, Ball gave birth to her second child, Desi Arnaz, Jr. Desiderio Alberto Arnaz IV, known as Desi Arnaz, Jr.
Before he was born, I Love Lucy was a solid ratings hit, and Ball and Arnaz wrote the pregnancy into the show. (Balls necessary and planned caesarean section in real life was scheduled for the same date that her television character gave birth.)
Several demands were made by CBS, insisting that a pregnant woman could not be shown on television, nor could the word "pregnant" be spoken on-air. After approval from several religious figures
the network allowed the pregnancy storyline, but insisted that the word "expecting" be used instead of "pregnant". (Arnaz garnered laughs when he deliberately mispronounced it as "spectin".)
The episodes official title was "Lucy Is Enceinte", borrowing the French word for pregnant;
however, episode titles never appeared on the show.

The episode aired on the evening of January 19, 1953, with 44 million viewers watching Lucy Ricardo welcome little Ricky, while in real life Ball delivered her second child, Desi Jr., that same day in Los Angeles.  The birth made the cover of the first issue of TV Guide for the week of April 3–9, 1953.{{citation needed date=December 2017}}

In October 1956, Ball, Arnaz, Vance, and William Frawley all appeared on a Bob Hope special on NBC, including a spoof of I Love Lucy, the only time all four stars were together on a color Broadcasting telecast. By the end of the 1950s, Desilu had become a large company, causing a good deal of stress for both Ball and Arnaz.{{citation needed date=March 2015 reason=Previous ref
<!--http://members.tripod.com/TropicanaNightclub/desihistory.html-->
not a reliable source}}

On March 3, 1960, a day after Desis 43rd birthday (and one day after the filming of Lucy and Desis last episode together), Ball filed papers in Santa Monica Superior Court, claiming married life with Desi was "a nightmare" and nothing at all as it appeared on I Love Lucy.
On May 4, 1960, just two months after filming that episode (the final episode of The Lucy-Desi Comedy Hour), the couple divorced. Until his death in 1986, however, Arnaz and Ball remained friends and often spoke very fondly of each other. Her real-life divorce indirectly found its way into her later television series, as she was always cast as an unmarried woman.
The following year, Ball starred in the Broadway musical Wildcat (musical) Wildcat, which co-starred Keith Andes and Paula Stewart. It marked the beginning of a 30-year friendship between Lucy and Stewart, who introduced Lucy to second husband, Gary Morton, a Borscht Belt comic who was 13 years her junior.{{sfn Sanders Gilbert 1993 p=216}} According to Ball, Morton claimed he had never seen an episode of I Love Lucy due to his hectic work schedule. Ball immediately installed Morton in her production company, teaching him the television business and eventually promoting him to producer. Morton played occasional bit parts on Balls various series.{{sfn Kanfer 2003 pp=94, 103}}

Ball was outspoken against the relationship her son had with actress Patty Duke. Later, commenting on when her son dated Liza Minnelli, she was quoted as saying, "I miss Liza, but you cannot domesticate Liza."{{sfn Kanfer 2003 pp=35–37}}

==Illness and death==
On April 18, 1989, Ball was at her home in Beverly Hills when she complained of chest pains. An ambulance was called and she was rushed to the emergency room of Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. She was diagnosed with dissecting aortic aneurysm and underwent heart surgery for nearly eight hours, including the transplant of a new aorta. The surgery appeared to have been successful, and Ball began recovering very quickly, even walking around her room with little assistance. She received a flurry of get-well wishes from Hollywood, and across the street from Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, the Hard Rock Café erected a sign reading "Hard Rock Loves Lucy". However, shortly after dawn on April 26, Ball awoke with severe back pains and soon lost consciousness.
Attempts to revive her proved unsuccessful and she died at 5:47 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time PDT. Doctors determined that Ball had succumbed to an abdominal aortic aneurysm and subsequent rupture, and that it was not directly related to her upper aneurysm and surgery the previous week. Cigarette smokers are known to have increased risk of abdominal aneurysm. Ball had been a heavy smoker most of her life. She was 77 years old.
Her body was cremated and the ashes were initially interred in Forest Lawn Memorial Park (Hollywood Hills) Forest Lawn – Hollywood Hills Cemetery in Los Angeles. However, in 2002, her children moved her remains to the Hunt family plot at Lake View Cemetery in Jamestown, New York, where her parents, Henry and Desirée (Hunt) Ball, and her grandparents are buried.
==Recognition and legacy==
File:Jamestown, New York (4303088285).jpg thumb The Lucille Ball Little Theatre in Balls hometown of Jamestown, New York
On February 8, 1960, Ball was awarded two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame: one at 6436 Hollywood Boulevard for contributions to List of actors with Hollywood Walk of Fame motion picture stars motion pictures, and one at 6100 Hollywood Boulevard for television.
Ball received many prestigious awards throughout her career, including some Posthumous award posthumously such as the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President George H. W. Bush on July 6, 1989,
and The Womens International Centers Living Legacy Award.
A Lucille Ball-Desi Arnaz Center museum is in Lucys hometown of Jamestown, New York. The Little Theatre was renamed the Lucille Ball Little Theatre in her honor.
Ball was among Time (magazine) Time magazines "100 Most Important People of the Century".
On June 7, 1990, Universal Studios Florida opened a walk-through attraction dedicated to Ball, Lucy - A Tribute, which featured clips of shows, as well as various pieces of trivia about her, along with items owned by or associated with Lucille, and an interactive quiz for guests. The attraction was permanently closed on August 17, 2015.
On August 6, 2001, which would have been her 90th birthday, the United States Postal Service honored her with a commemorative postage stamp as part of its Legends of Hollywood series.
Ball appeared on the cover of TV Guide more than any other person; she appeared on 39 covers, including the first cover in 1953 with her baby son, Desi Arnaz, Jr.
TV Guide voted Lucille Ball as the Greatest TV Star of All Time and it later commemorated the 50th anniversary of I Love Lucy with eight collector covers celebrating memorable scenes from the show. In another instance it named I Love Lucy the second-best television program in American history, after Seinfeld.
Due to her support for the Womens Movement in the United States (1963-1982) Womens Movement, Ball was inducted into the National Womens Hall of Fame in 2001.
File:Lucille Ball (3831372291).jpg thumb left Balls Hollywood Walk of Fame star for her television work
The New York Friars Club Friars Club named a room in its New York clubhouse for Lucille Ball (the Lucille Ball Room).
She was posthumously awarded the Legacy of Laughter award at the fifth Annual TV Land Awards in 2007.
In November 2007, Lucille Ball was chosen as number two on a list of the 50 Greatest TV Icons; a public poll, however, chose her as number one.
On August 6, 2011, which would have been her 100th birthday, Google honored Ball with an interactive Google Doodle doodle on their homepage, which displayed six classic moments from I Love Lucy.
On the same day, a total of 915 Ball look-alikes converged on Jamestown to celebrate the birthday and set a new world record for such a gathering.
Since 2009, a Lucille Ball (sculpture) statue of Ball has been on display in Celoron, New York. Residents deemed that statue "scary" and not accurate, earning it the nickname "Scary Lucy".
On August 1, 2016, it was announced that a new statue of Ball would replace it. The new statue replaced the old one on August 6, 2016.
However, since the old statue became a local tourist attraction after receiving media attention, it was placed 75 yards from its original location so visitors could visit both statues.
In 2015, it was announced that Ball would be played by Cate Blanchett in an untitled biographical film, to be written by Aaron Sorkin.
Ball was portrayed by Gillian Anderson, as her character Lucy Ricardo, in the American Gods (TV series) American Gods episode "The Secret of Spoons" (2017).
Ball was portrayed by Sarah Drew in I Love Lucy: A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Sitcom, a comedy about how Ball and her husband battled to get their sitcom on the air. It had its world premiere in Los Angeles on July 12, 2018, co-starring Oscar Nuñez as Desi Arnaz, and Seamus Dever as I Love Lucy creator-producer-head writer Jess Oppenheimer. The play, written by Jess Oppenheimers son, Gregg Oppenheimer, was recorded in front of a live audience for nationwide public radio broadcast and online distribution.
==Filmography and television work==
{{Main Lucille Ball performances}}

==Radio appearances==
{  class="wikitable"
 -
! Year !! Program !! Episode/source
 -
  1944   Suspense (radio drama) Suspense    "Dime a Dance"
-
  1944   Suspense (radio drama) Suspense    "The Ten Grand"
-
  1944   Lux Radio Theatre    "Lucky Partners"
 -
  1945   Suspense (radio drama) Suspense    "A Shroud for Sarah"
-
  1947   Suspense (radio drama) Suspense    "Taxi Dancer"
 -
  1947   Lux Radio Theatre    "The Dark Corner"
 -
  1951   Screen Directors Playhouse    Bachelor Mother
-
 1948-51
 My Favorite Husband
 7/5/48 - 3/24/51
 }

== See also ==

* {{Portal-inline United States}}
* {{Portal-inline Biography}}
* {{Portal-inline Television}}
* {{Portal-inline Film}}
