Lynne Koplitz is an American stand-up comedy stand-up comedian and actress. Koplitz was host of Telepictures nationally syndicated dating show Change of Heart (TV series) Change of Heart, guest host on NBCs Later, co-host of the Food Networks How to Boil Water, and co-host of Sony Pictures syndicated talk show Life and Style. Her stand-up has appeared on a number of Comedy Central specials, including Premium Blend and Comedy Central Presents. She performed at the Just for Laughs comedy festival in Montreal.

==Life and career==
Koplitz earned a BA in theatre arts from Troy University Troy State University where she was a member of the Iota Kappa Chapter of Chi Omega in 1989. She performed for a regional theater group in Knoxville, Tennessee, before moving to New York City.

Koplitz is one of the comedian contributors to the "History of the Joke" on the History Channel, hosted by Lewis Black. Koplitz was featured in a series of advertisements for her alma mater, Troy University. She co-starred on Sony’s syndicated talk show Life and Style with Jules Asner and Kimora Lee Simmons, as well as the NBC shows Extra, The Other Half, and last year’s Shop &amp; Style. Lynne also has her own half-hour special, Comedy Central Presents: Lynne Koplitz, currently in rotation on Comedy Central. She is also currently featured in one of the "Whats Funny About That Time Of The Month" series of advertisements for Midol, with the "Sick Boyfriend" installment.
Furthermore, she can also be seen on Z Rock (TV series) Z Rock, on Independent Film Channel IFC, where she plays Dina, the manager of the shows band, ZO2. In 2009 she co-hosted a radio show called StarTalk (podcast) StarTalk along with well-known astrophysicist Dr. Neil deGrasse Tyson.
The show is syndicated Sunday afternoons on KEIB in Los Angeles and WJFK (AM) WHFS in Washington DC.

On September 20, 2010, Koplitz played Sister Rita in a staged reading of the Charles Messina play A Room of My Own at The Theatre at 45 Bleecker Street in Greenwich Village.
Koplitz appeared on the We TV series Joan Knows Best.
In 2017, she released her first Netflix special, titled Hormonal Beast, to positive reviews. She dedicated her special to Joan Rivers.
