Mack Sennett (born Michael Sinnott; January 17, 1880 – November 5, 1960) was an American film director and producer, known as the King of Comedy.

Born in Canada, he started in films in the Biograph company of New York, he opened Keystone Studios in Edendale, California in 1912. It was the first fully enclosed film stage, and Sennett became famous as the originator of slapstick routines such as pie-throwing and car-chases, as seen in the Keystone Cops films. He also produced short features that displayed his Bathing Beauties, many of whom went on to develop successful acting careers.
 
Sennett’s work in sound-movies was less successful and he was bankrupted in 1933. He was presented with an honorary Academy Award for his contribution to film comedy.

==Early life==
Born Michael Sinnott in Richmond Danville, Quebec Ste-Bibiane Parish, Quebec, Canada, he was the son of Irish Catholic John Sinnott and Catherine Foy, married 1879 in Tingwick St-Patrice Parish, Québec.
The newlyweds moved the same year to Richmond, where John Sinnott was hired as a laborer. By 1883, when Michaels brother George was born, John Sinnott was working in Richmond as an innkeeper; he worked as an innkeeper for many years afterward. John Sinnott and Catherine Foy had all their children and raised their family in Richmond, then a small Eastern Townships village. At that time, Michaels grandparents were living in Danville, Québec. Michael Sinnott moved to Connecticut when he was 17 years old.

He lived for a while in Northampton, Massachusetts, where, according to his autobiography, Sennett first got the idea to become an opera singer after seeing a vaudeville show. He claimed that the most respected lawyer in town, Northampton mayor (and future President of the United States) Calvin Coolidge, as well as Sennetts own mother, tried to talk him out of his musical ambitions.
In New York City, Sennett became an actor, singer, dancer, clown, set designer, and Film director director for American Mutoscope and Biograph Company Biograph. A major distinction in his acting career, often overlooked, is the fact that Sennett played Sherlock Holmes 11 times, albeit as a parody, between 1911 and 1913.{{Citation needed date=January 2010}}

==Keystone Studios==
Image:Mack Sennett Studios 1917.jpg thumb right 300px Mack Sennett Studios, circa 1917

With financial backing from Adam Kessel and Charles O. Bauman of the New York Motion Picture Company, Michael "Mack" Sennett founded Keystone Studios in Edendale, Los Angeles, California Edendale, California in 1912 (which is now a part of Echo Park, California Echo Park). The original main building which was the first totally enclosed film stage and studio ever constructed, is still there today. Many important actors cemented their film careers with Sennett, including Marie Dressler, Mabel Normand, Charles Chaplin, Harry Langdon, Roscoe Arbuckle, Harold Lloyd, Raymond Griffith, Gloria Swanson, Ford Sterling, Andy Clyde, Chester Conklin, Polly Moran, Louise Fazenda, The Keystone Cops, Bing Crosby, and W. C. Fields.

Mack Sennetts slapstick comedies were noted for their wild car chases and custard pie warfare, especially in the Keystone Cops series. Additionally, Sennetts first female comedian was Mabel Normand, who became a major star under his direction and with whom he embarked on a tumultuous romantic relationship. Sennett also developed the Kid Comedies, a forerunner of the Our Gang films, and in a short time, his name became synonymous with screen comedy which were called "flickers" at the time. In 1915, Keystone Studios became an autonomous production unit of the ambitious Triangle Film Corporation, as Sennett joined forces with D. W. Griffith and Thomas H. Ince Thomas Ince, both powerful figures in the film industry.{{Citation needed date=January 2010}}

== Sennett Bathing Beauties ==

File:MackSennetBathingBeauties.JPG right thumb Sennett Bathing Beauties

File:Billy Bevan (1).jpg right thumb Actor Billy Bevan flanked by four bathing beauties, 1920s

Also beginning in 1915,
Sennett assembled a bevy of women known as the Sennett Bathing Beauties to appear in provocative bathing costumes in comedy short subjects, in promotional material, and in promotional events such as Venice Beach beauty contests.

Two of those often named as Bathing Beauties do not belong on the list: Mabel Normand and Gloria Swanson. Normand was a featured player, and her 1912 8-minute film The Water Nymph may have been the direct inspiration for the Bathing Beauties.
Although Gloria Swanson worked for Sennett in 1916 and was photographed in a bathing suit, she was also a star and "vehemently denied" being one of the bathing beauties.
Not individually featured or named, many of these young women ascended to significant careers of their own. They included Juanita Hansen, Claire Anderson, Marie Prevost, Phyllis Haver, and Carole Lombard. In the 1920s, Sennetts Bathing Beauties remained popular enough to provoke imitators such as the Christie Studios Bathing Beauties (counting Raquel Torres and Laura La Plante as alumnae
) and 20th Century Fox#Fox Film Corporation Fox Film Corporations "Sunshine Girls" (counting Janet Gaynor as an alumna).
The Sennett Bathing Beauties continued to appear through 1928.

== Independent production ==

In 1917, Sennett gave up the Keystone trademark and organized his own company, Mack Sennett Comedies Corporation. (Sennetts bosses retained the Keystone trademark and produced a cheap series of comedy shorts that were "Keystones" in name only: they were unsuccessful, and Sennett had no connection with them.) Sennett went on to produce more ambitious comedy short films and a few feature-length films.{{Citation needed date=January 2010}}
During the 1920s, his short subjects were in much demand, featuring stars such as Billy Bevan, Andy Clyde, Harry Gribbon, Vernon Dent, Alice Day, Ralph Graves, Charlie Murray, and Harry Langdon. He produced several features with his brightest stars such as Ben Turpin and Mabel Normand.

Many of Sennetts films of the early 1920s were inherited by Warner Bros. Studio. Warner Bros. merged with the original distributor, First National, and added music and commentary to several of these short subjects. Unfortunately, many of the films of this period were destroyed due to inadequate storage. As a result, many of Sennetts films from his most productive and creative period no longer exist.{{Citation needed date=January 2010}}

==Move to Pathé Exchange==

In the mid-1920s, Sennett moved to Pathé Exchange distribution. Pathé had a huge market share, but made bad corporate decisions, such as attempting to sell too many comedies at once (including those of Sennetts main competitor, Hal Roach). In 1927, Paramount Pictures Paramount and MGM, which were Hollywoods two top studios at the time, took note of the profits being made by smaller companies such as Pathé Exchange and Educational Pictures. So, Paramount and MGM decided to resume the production and distribution of short subjects. Hal Roach signed with MGM, but Mack Sennett remained with Pathé Exchange even during hard times, which were brought on by the competition. Hundreds of other independent exhibitors and movie houses of this period had switched from Pathe′ to the new MGM or Paramount films and short subjects.{{Citation needed date=January 2010}}

==Experiments, awards, and bankruptcy==
File:Mabels Dramatic Career 1913.jpeg thumb right 300px Movie theatre audience members Roscoe Arbuckle and Mack Sennett square off while watching Mabel Normand onscreen in Mabels Dramatic Career (1913)
File:The Fatal Mallet.jpg right thumb Mabel Normand, Mack Sennett, and Charles Chaplin in The Fatal Mallet (1914)
File:Love, Speed and Thrills - Walter Wright - 1915, Keystone Film - EYE FLM39508 - OB 685625.webm thumb Silent film Love, Speed and Thrills (1915) directed by Walter Wright (director) Walter Wright and produced by Mack Sennett, running time: 14:12, is a chase film in which a man (named Walrus) kidnaps the wife of his benefactor, but the so-called "Keystone Cops" are also chasing down Walrus.
Sennett made a reasonably smooth transition to sound films, releasing them through Earle Hammonss Educational Pictures. Sennett occasionally experimented with color. Plus, he was the first to get a talkie short subject on the market in 1928. In 1932, he was nominated for the Academy Award for Live Action Short Film in the comedy division for producing The Loud Mouth (with Matt McHugh, in the sports-heckler role later taken in Columbia Pictures remakes by Charley Chase and Shemp Howard). Sennett also won an Academy Award in the novelty division for his film Wrestling Swordfish also in 1932.
