Mark Douglas Brown McKinney (born June 26, 1959) is a Canadian actor and comedian, best known for his work in the sketch comedy troupe The Kids in the Hall. Following the run of their television series (1989 to 1995) and feature film (Brain Candy), he was a cast member in Saturday Night Live from 1995 to 1997. From 2003 to 2006, he co-created, wrote and starred in the acclaimed mini-series Slings and Arrows, a TV show about a Canadian theatre company struggling to survive while a crazy genius director haunted by his dead mentor helps the actors find authenticity in their acting. McKinney currently has a regular role as Glenn on the NBC comedy Superstore (TV series) Superstore and appeared as Tom in FXX FXXs Man Seeking Woman.

==Early life==
McKinney was born in Ottawa Ottawa, Ontario, the son of Chloe, an architectural writer, and Russell McKinney, a diplomat.
Because of his fathers career, he did a lot of travelling when he was young. Some of the places he lived while growing up were Trinidad, Paris, Mexico, and Washington, D.C. He also attended Trinity College School, a boarding school in Port Hope, Ontario. For a short while, McKinney was a student at Memorial University of Newfoundland, where he was a political science major.

==Acting career==

===The Kids in the Hall===
Image:ETalk2008-Kids In The Hall.jpg thumb right 255px The Kids in the Hall at the 2008 Toronto International Film Festival
He started performing comedy with the Loose Moose Theatre Company in Calgary, Alberta. There, McKinney met Bruce McCulloch. Together they formed a comedy team called "The Audience." Eventually, McKinney and McCulloch moved to Toronto, and met Dave Foley and Kevin McDonald, who were in the process of forming a comedy troupe. Along with Scott Thompson (comedian) Scott Thompson, who joined after coming to a stage show, and producer Lorne Michaels, The Kids in the Hall was formed in 1985.

Notable "Kids" characters played by McKinney include the Chicken Lady, Darill (pronounced da-RILL), bluesman Mississippi Gary, and Mr. Tyzik the Headcrusher, an embittered Eastern European who pretended to crush the heads of passers-by between his thumb and forefinger.

===Saturday Night Live===
After the end of The Kids in the Hall, McKinney joined the cast of another Lorne Michaels sketch comedy show, Saturday Night Live in the middle of the 1994-1995 season (season 20) as a repertory player. McKinney survived the cast overhaul that occurred at the end of season 20 and stayed on SNL until the end of the 1996–1997 (season 22). During his time on SNL, McKinney had six recurring characters (some of note include Ian Daglers from "Scottish Soccer Hooligan Weekly", Melanie, a Catholic schoolgirl, and Lucien Callow, a fop often paired with David Koechners fop character Fagan) and twenty-seven celebrity impersonations (some of note include Mel Gibson, Barney Frank, Al Gore, Paul Shaffer, Mark Russell, Jim Carrey, Lance Ito, Tim Robbins, Steve Forbes, Wolf Blitzer, Bill Gates, and Ellen DeGeneres).
===Movie appearances===
He has appeared in several films, including the SNL spinoffs Superstar (1999 film) Superstar, The Ladies Man (2000 film) The Ladies Man and A Night at the Roxbury. McKinney also starred opposite Isabella Rossellini in Guy Maddins acclaimed tragicomedy The Saddest Music in the World. He also appeared in the Spice Girls movie Spice World (film) Spice World. In 1999 he appeared in the Canadian television film adaptation Jacob Two Two Meets the Hooded Fang (1999 film) Jacob Two Two Meets the Hooded Fang.

McKinney cowrote and starred in the Kids in the Hall movie Brain Candy, in which, among other roles, he spoofed SNL and KITH executive producer Lorne Michaels.

===Theatre===
His theatre appearances include The Ugly Man with One Yellow Rabbit at the Edinburgh Fringe festival and Glasgow. He was in the cast of The Roundabout theatre production of Flea in her Ear and David Lindsay Abaires Fuddy Meers for the Manhattan theatre club. During the fall of 2001 McKinney performed the one-man show Fully Committed at the Wintergarden theatre in Toronto and again in the summer of 2002 at the Centaur Theatre in Montreal.
===Latest appearances===
Beginning in 2015, he is a co-star on the NBC sitcom Superstore (TV series) Superstore which was renewed for a fourth season in February 2018. His recent appearances on television have been as a cast member on the CBC Television CBC comedy Hatching, Matching and Dispatching Hatching, Matching, and Dispatching and its 2017 follow up A Christmas Furey. He also appeared the first season of Robson Arms, as well as on the hit Canadian comedy Corner Gas.

From 2003 to 2006, he co-created, co-wrote and starred in the acclaimed dramedy TV mini-series Slings and Arrows, about the backstage goings-on in a Canadian Shakespearean theatre company struggling with financial problems as they rehearse and present various productions.

In 2006–7 he both worked as a story editor on and a recurring role in NBCs Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip as Andy Mackinaw, a humourless widowed writer/story editor for the show-within-a-show.
He directed the short film Not Pretty, Really for the 2006 anthology Shorts in Motion: The Art of Seduction.

As well, he directed and appeared on the CBC Radio post-apocalyptic comedy Steve, The First and its sequel, Steve, The Second, for his friend Matt Watts (comedian) Matt Watts. He is also a writer for Watts new sitcom Michael, Tuesdays and Thursdays, which aired on CBC Television in fall 2011.
In the summer of 2007, he became the show-runner and executive producer of Less Than Kind, a half hour comedy starring Maury Chaykin.

He was in an episode of the Canadian childrens TV show Dino Dan, episode Prehistoric Zoo/Ready? Set? Dino! He plays Dino Dans track coach in the second part, Ready? Set? Dino! of this two-show episode released 4 October 2010 (Canada).
He co-wrote and starred in the Kids in the Hall 2010 reunion project Death Comes to Town.
In 2011, he was an executive producer of Picnicface (TV series) Picnicface, a sketch TV series from the Halifax comedy troupe of the same name produced for The Comedy Network.
In 2013, he co-starred in Rocket Monkeys as the main antagonist, Lord Peel.
In 2014, he appeared in the CBC Television series The Best Laid Plans (TV series) The Best Laid Plans.
===Dynaman===
McKinney is credited in the American dubbed parody of the popular Japanese television series Kagaku Sentai Dynaman as the voice of Yousuke, aka Dyna Blue.
