Mary Tyler Moore (December 29, 1936 – January 25, 2017) was an American actress, known for her roles in the television sitcoms The Mary Tyler Moore Show (1970–1977), in which she starred as Mary Richards, a single woman working as a local news producer in Minneapolis, and The Dick Van Dyke Show (1961–1966), in which she played The Dick Van Dyke Show#Characters Laura Petrie, a former dancer turned Westchester County, New York Westchester homemaker, wife and mother.
Her film work includes 1967s Thoroughly Modern Millie and 1980s Ordinary People, in which she played a role that was very different from the television characters she had portrayed, and for which she was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actress.
Due to her roles on both The Mary Tyler Moore Show and The Dick Van Dyke Show, in which her characters often broke from stereotypical images of women and pushed gender norms, Moore became a cultural icon and served as an inspiration for many younger actresses, professional women, and feminists.
She was later active in charity work and various political causes, particularly the issues of animal rights, vegetarianism
and diabetes mellitus type 1 diabetes. She was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes early in the run of The Mary Tyler Moore Show.
She also suffered from alcoholism, which she wrote about in her first of two memoirs. She died from Cardiac arrest cardiopulmonary arrest due to pneumonia at the age of 80 on January 25, 2017.
==Early life==
Moore was born in Brooklyn, New York (state) New York, to George Tyler Moore (1913–2006), a clerk, and his wife Marjorie Hackett (1916–1992).
Moore was the oldest of three children (her siblings were John and Elizabeth).  Moores family lived on Ocean Parkway in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn. Her paternal great-grandfather Lieutenant Colonel Lewis Tilghman Moore owned the house which is now the Stonewall Jacksons Headquarters Museum in Winchester, Virginia.
When she was eight years old, Moores family moved to Los Angeles at the recommendation of Moores uncle, an MCA Inc. MCA employee.
She was raised Catholic,
and attended St. Rose of Lima Parochial School in Brooklyn until the third grade. She then attended Saint Ambrose School in Los Angeles, followed by Immaculate Heart High School (Los Angeles) Immaculate Heart High School in Los Feliz, Los Angeles Los Feliz, California.
Moores sister, Elizabeth, died at age 21 "from a combination of...painkillers and alcohol" while her brother died at age 47 from kidney cancer.
==Career==
File:Mary Tyler Moore Johnny Staccato 1960.jpg thumb left upright=1.05 Moore in Johnny Staccato, 1960

===Television===
====Early appearances====

Moore decided at age 17 that she wanted to be a dancer. Her television career began with Moores first job as "Happy Hotpoint", a tiny elf dancing on Hotpoint home appliance appliances in television commercial TV commercials during the 1950s series The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet Ozzie and Harriet.
After appearing in 39 Hotpoint commercials in five days, she received approximately $6,000.
She became pregnant while still working as "Happy" and Hotpoint ended her work when it was too difficult to conceal her pregnancy with the elf costume.
Moore modeled anonymously on the covers of a number of record albums and auditioned for the role of the older daughter of Danny Thomas for his long-running TV show, but was turned down.
Much later, Thomas explained that "she missed it by a nose... no daughter of mine could ever have a nose that small."
Moores first regular television role was as a mysterious and glamorous telephone receptionist on Richard Diamond, Private Detective. On the show, Moores voice was heard, but only her legs appeared on camera, adding to the characters mystique.
About this time, she guest-starred on John Cassavetess NBC detective series Johnny Staccato. She also guest-starred in Bachelor Father (U.S. TV series) Bachelor Father in the episode titled "Bentley and the Big Board". In 1960, she was featured in two episodes of the William Bendix-Doug McClure NBC Western (genre) western series, Overland Trail (TV series) Overland Trail and several months later in the first episode of NBCs one-season The Tab Hunter Show, a sitcom starring the former teen idol as a bachelor cartoonist.
In 1961, Moore appeared in several big parts in movies and on television, including Bourbon Street Beat, 77 Sunset Strip, Surfside 6, Wanted Dead or Alive (TV series) Wanted: Dead or Alive, Steve Canyon, Hawaiian Eye, Thriller (U.S. TV series) Thriller and Lock-Up (TV series) Lock-Up.

File:Mary Tyler Moore Dick Van Dyke 1964.JPG thumb right upright=1.05 With Dick Van Dyke, 1964

====The Dick Van Dyke Show (1961–1966)====

In 1961, Carl Reiner cast Moore in The Dick Van Dyke Show, a weekly series based on Reiners own life and career as a writer for Sid Caesars television variety show Your Show of Shows, telling the cast from the outset that it would run for no more than five years. The show was produced by Danny Thomas company, and Thomas himself recommended her. He remembered Moore as "the girl with three names" whom he had turned down earlier.
Moores energetic comic performances as Van Dykes characters wife, begun at age 24 (11 years Van Dykes junior), made both the actress and her signature tight capri pants extremely popular, and she became internationally known. When she won her first Emmy Award for her portrayal of Laura Petrie,
she said, "I know this will never happen again".
File:Mary Tyler Moore cast 1970.jpg thumb left  upright=1.05 The original cast of The Mary Tyler Moore Show, 1970. Top: Valerie Harper (Rhoda (TV series) Rhoda), Ed Asner (Lou Grant (TV series) Lou Grant), Cloris Leachman (Phyllis (TV series) Phyllis). Bottom: Gavin MacLeod (Murray), Moore, Ted Knight (Ted).

====The Mary Tyler Moore Show (1970–1977)====

In 1970, after having appeared earlier in a pivotal one-hour musical special called Dick Van Dyke and the Other Woman, Moore and husband Grant Tinker successfully pitched a sitcom centered on Moore to CBS. The Mary Tyler Moore Show is a half-hour newsroom sitcom featuring Ed Asner as her gruff boss Lou Grant (fictional character) Lou Grant. Moores show proved so popular that three other regular characters, Valerie Harper as Rhoda (TV series) Rhoda Morgenstern, Cloris Leachman as Phyllis (TV series) Phyllis Lindstrom and Ed Asner as Lou Grant (TV series) Lou Grant were also spun off into their own series. The premise of the single working womans life, alternating during the program between work and home, became a television staple.
