Matthew Richard Stone (born May 26, 1971) is an American actor, animator, writer, director, producer, singer, and songwriter. He is known for co-creating South Park (1997–present) along with his creative partner Trey Parker, as well as co-writing the Tony Award-winning musical The Book of Mormon (musical) The Book of Mormon (2011). Stone was interested in film and music as a child, and attended the University of Colorado, Boulder following high school, where he met Parker. The two collaborated on various short films, and starred in a feature-length musical, titled Cannibal! The Musical (1993).

Stone and Parker moved to Los Angeles and wrote their second film, Orgazmo (1997). Before the premiere of the movie, South Park premiered on Comedy Central in August 1997. The duo, who possess full creative control of the show, have since produced music and video games based on the show, which continues to run. They worked on a feature film titled South Park: Bigger, Longer &amp; Uncut (1999), which received acclaim from both critics and fans. Alongside Parker, he has also produced various feature films and television series, including Team America: World Police (2004). After several years of development, The Book of Mormon, a musical co-written by Stone, Parker, and composer Robert Lopez, premiered on Broadway theatre Broadway and became immensely successful. In 2013, he and Parker established their own production studio, Important Studios.

Stone has been the recipient of various awards over the course of his career, including five Primetime Emmy Awards for his work on South Park, as well as three Tony Awards and one Grammy Award for The Book of Mormon.

==Early life==
Matthew Richard Stone was born on May 26, 1971 in Houston, Texas, to economics professor Gerald Whitney Stone and Sheila Lois (Belasco), the latter of whom is Jewish.
The South Park characters Gerald and Sheila Broflovski were named after them. Stone and his younger sister Rachel were raised in Littleton, Colorado, a suburb of Denver, Colorado, where both attended Heritage High School (Littleton, Colorado) Heritage High School.
He graduated from the University of Colorado Boulder.

==Career==

===Career beginnings===

====Cannibal! The Musical (1992–94)====
In 1992, Stone, Parker, McHugh, and Ian Hardin founded a production company named the Avenging Conscience. The company was named after the D.W. Griffith The Avenging Conscience film by the same name (which was actively disliked by the group.)
Parker again employed the cutout paper technique on Avenging Consciences first production, Jesus vs. Frosty (1992), an animated short pitting the religious figure against Frosty the Snowman.

The quartet created a three-minute Trailer (film) trailer for a fictional film titled Alferd Packer: The Musical. The idea was based on an obsession Parker had with Alfred Packer, a real nineteenth-century prospecting prospector accused of cannibalism.
