Melvin Jerome Blanc (May 30, 1908 – July 10, 1989)
was an American voice actor, comedian, singer, radio personality, and recording artist. After beginning his over 60-year career performing in radio, he became known for his work in Animated cartoon animation as the voices of Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, Porky Pig, Tweety Tweety Bird, Sylvester (Looney Tunes) Sylvester the Cat, Yosemite Sam, Foghorn Leghorn, Marvin the Martian, Pepé Le Pew, Speedy Gonzales, Wile E. Coyote and The Road Runner Wile E. Coyote, Road Runner, the Tasmanian Devil (Looney Tunes) Tasmanian Devil and many of the other characters from the Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies Short film theatrical cartoons during the golden age of American animation. He voiced all of the major male Warner Bros. cartoon characters except for Elmer Fudd, whose voice was provided by fellow radio personality Arthur Q. Bryan, although Blanc later voiced Fudd as well after Bryans death.
He later voiced characters for Hanna-Barberas television cartoons, including Barney Rubble on The Flintstones and List of The Jetsons characters#Mr. Spacely Mr. Spacely on The Jetsons. Blanc was also the original voice of Woody Woodpecker for Universal Studios Universal Pictures and provided vocal effects for the Tom and Jerry cartoons directed by Chuck Jones for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer MGM, replacing William Hanna. During the Old-time radio golden age of radio, Blanc also frequently performed on the programs of famous comedians from the era, including Jack Benny, Abbott and Costello, Burns and Allen and Judy Canova.
Having earned the nickname The Man of a Thousand Voices,
Blanc is regarded as one of the most influential people in the voice acting voice acting industry.
==Early life==
Blanc was born in San Francisco, California to History of the Jews in Russia Russian-Jewish parents Frederick and Eva Blank, the younger of two children. He grew up in the Western Addition neighborhood in San Francisco,
and later in Portland, Oregon, where he attended Lincoln High School (Portland, Oregon) Lincoln High School.
Growing up, he had a fondness for voices and dialect which he began voicing at the age of 10. He claimed that he changed the spelling of his name when he was 16, from "Blank" to "Blanc", because a teacher told him that he would amount to nothing and be like his name, a "blank". Blanc joined the DeMolay International Order of DeMolay as a young man, and was eventually inducted into its Hall of Fame.
After graduating from high school in 1927, he split his time between leading an orchestra, becoming the youngest conductor in the country at the age of 19, and performing shtick in vaudeville shows around Washington, Oregon, and northern California.
==Career==

===Radio work===
Blanc began his radio career at the age of 19 in 1927, when he made his acting debut on the KGW program The Hoot Owls, where his ability to provide voices for multiple characters first attracted attention. He moved to Los Angeles in 1932, where he met Estelle Rosenbaum (1909–2003), whom he married a year later, before returning to Portland. He moved to KEX (AM) KEX in 1933 to produce and co-host his Cobweb and Nuts show with his wife Estelle, which debuted on June 15. The program played Monday through Saturday from 11:00 pm to midnight, and by the time the show ended two years later, it appeared from 10:30 pm to 11:00 pm.

With his wifes encouragement, Blanc returned to Los Angeles and joined Warner Bros.–owned KFWB in Hollywood, Los Angeles, California Hollywood in 1935. He joined The Johnny Murray Show, but the following year switched to CBS Radio and The Joe Penner Show.

File:Jack Benny group photo.jpg thumb left 300px The cast of The Jack Benny Program, from left to right: Eddie Anderson (comedian) Eddie Anderson, Dennis Day, Phil Harris, Mary Livingstone, Jack Benny, Don Wilson (announcer) Don Wilson, and Mel Blanc

Blanc was a regular on the NBC Red Network show The Jack Benny Program in various roles, including voicing Bennys Maxwell automobile (in desperate need of a tune-up), violin teacher Professor LeBlanc, Polly the Parrot, Bennys pet polar bear Carmichael, the tormented department store clerk, and the train announcer. The first role came from a mishap when the recording of the automobiles sounds failed to play on cue, prompting Blanc to take the microphone and improvise the sounds himself. The audience reacted so positively that Benny decided to dispense with the recording altogether and have Blanc continue in that role. One of Blancs most memorable characters from Bennys radio (and later TV) programs was "Sy, the Little Mexican", who spoke one word at a time. The famous "Sí ... Sy ... Sue ... sew" routine was so effective that no matter how many times it was performed, the laughter was always there, thanks to the comedic timing of Blanc and Benny.
Blanc continued to work with him on radio until the series ended in 1955 and followed the program into television from Bennys 1950 debut episode through guest spots on NBC specials in the 1970s. They last appeared together on a Johnny Carson Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson Tonight Show in January 1974. A few months later, Blanc spoke highly of Benny on a Tom Snyder Tomorrow (TV series) Tomorrow show special aired the night of the comedians death.

By 1946, Blanc appeared on over 15 radio programs in supporting roles. His success on The Jack Benny Program led to his own radio show on the CBS Radio Network, The Mel Blanc Show, which ran from September 3, 1946, to June 24, 1947. Blanc played himself as the hapless owner of a fix-it shop, as well as his young cousin Zookie.

Blanc also appeared on such other national radio programs as The Abbott and Costello Show, the Happy Postman on Burns and Allen, and as August Moon on Point Sublime. During World War II, he appeared as Private Sad Sack on various radio shows, including G.I. Journal. Blanc recorded a song titled "Big Bear Lake".

===Animation voice work during the golden age of Hollywood===
File:Private Snafu - Spies.ogv thumb Private Snafu: Spies (1943 film) Spies, voiced by Blanc in 1943
In December 1936, Mel Blanc joined Warner Bros. Cartoons#1933–44: Leon Schlesinger Productions Leon Schlesinger Productions, which was producing theatrical cartoon shorts for Warner Bros. After sound man Treg Brown was put in charge of cartoon voices, and Carl Stalling became music director, Brown introduced Blanc to animation directors Tex Avery, Bob Clampett, Friz Freleng, and Frank Tashlin, who loved his voices. The first cartoon Blanc worked on was Picador Porky (1937) as the voice of a drunken bull.
He soon after received his first starring role when he replaced Joe Dougherty as Porky Pigs voice in Porkys Duck Hunt, which marked the debut of Daffy Duck, also voiced by Blanc.

Following this, Blanc became a very prominent vocal artist for Warner Bros., voicing a wide variety of the "Looney Tunes" characters. Bugs Bunny, whom Blanc made his debut as in A Wild Hare (1940),
was known for eating carrots frequently (especially while saying his catchphrase "Eh, whats up, doc?"). To follow this sound with the animated voice, Blanc would bite into a carrot and then quickly spit into a spittoon. One oft-repeated story is that Blanc was allergic to carrots, which Blanc denied.
In Walt Disney Animation Studios Disneys Pinocchio (1940 film) Pinocchio, Blanc was hired to perform the voice of Gideon the Cat. However, Gideon eventually was decided to be a mute character (similar to Dopey from Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937 film) Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs), so all of Blancs recorded dialogue was deleted except for a solitary hiccup, which was heard three times in the finished film.
Blanc also originated the voice and laugh of Woody Woodpecker for the theatrical cartoons produced by Walter Lantz Productions Walter Lantz for Universal Studios Universal Pictures, but stopped voicing the character after he was signed to an exclusive contract with Warner Bros. (His laugh was used in the cartoons until 1951, while his "Guess who!?" signature line was used until the end of the series in 1972).
During World War II, Blanc served as the voice of the hapless Private Snafu in various war-themed animated shorts.
Throughout his career, Blanc, aware of his talents, protected the rights to his voice characterizations contractually and legally. He, and later his estate, never hesitated taking civil action when those rights were violated. Voice actors at the time rarely received screen credits, but Blanc was an exception; by 1944, his contract with Warner Bros. stipulated a credit reading "Voice characterization(s) by Mel Blanc." According to his autobiography, Blanc asked for and received this screen credit from studio boss Leon Schlesinger after he was denied a salary raise.
Initially, Blancs screen credit was limited only to cartoons where he voiced Bugs Bunny, with any other shorts he worked on being uncredited. In the middle of 1945, the contract was amended to include a screen credit for cartoons featuring Porky Pig and/or Daffy Duck as well, save for any shorts made before that amendment occurred (Book Revue and Baby Bottleneck are examples, despite being released after the fact). But by the end of 1946, Blanc began receiving a screen credit in any subsequent Warner Bros. cartoon for which he provided voices.
===Voice work for Hanna-Barbera and others===
In 1960, after the expiration of his exclusive contract with Warner Bros., Blanc continued working for WB, but also began providing voices for the TV cartoons produced by Hanna-Barbera; his most famous roles during this time were Barney Rubble of The Flintstones and List of The Jetsons characters#Mr. Spacely Cosmo Spacely of The Jetsons. His other voice roles for Hanna-Barbara included Dino (The Flintstones) Dino the Dinosaur, Secret Squirrel, Speed Buggy, and Captain Caveman and the Teen Angels Captain Caveman, as well as voices for Wally Gator and The Perils of Penelope Pitstop.

Blanc also worked with former "Looney Tunes" director Chuck Jones, who by this time was directing shorts with his own company Sib Tower 12 (later MGM Animation/Visual Arts); doing vocal effects for the Tom and Jerry series from 1963 to 1967. Blanc was the first voice of Toucan Sam in Froot Loops commercials.

Blanc reprised some of his Warner Bros. characters when the studio contracted him to make DePatie-Freleng Enterprises new theatrical cartoons in the mid-to-late 1960s. For these, Blanc voiced Daffy Duck and Speedy Gonzales, the characters who received the most frequent use in these shorts (later, newly introduced characters such as Cool Cat and Merlin the Magic Mouse were voiced by Larry Storch). Blanc also continued to voice the "Looney Tunes" for the bridging sequences of The Bugs Bunny Show, as well as in numerous animated advertisements and several compilation features, such as The Bugs Bunny/Road Runner Movie (1979). He also voiced Granny (Looney Tunes) Granny in Bugs Bunny’s High-Fructose Christmas Record (in place of June Foray).
===Car accident and aftermath===
On January 24, 1961, Blanc was involved in a near-fatal car accident. He was driving alone when his sports car head-on collision collided head-on with a car driven by 18-year-old college student Arthur Rolston on Sunset Boulevard.
Rolston suffered minor injuries, but Blanc was rushed to the UCLA Medical Center with a triple skull fracture that left him in a coma for two weeks, along with sustaining fractures to both legs and the pelvis.
About two weeks after the accident, one of Blancs neurologists tried a different approach.{{clarify different to what? date=June 2018}} Blanc was asked, "How are you feeling today, Bugs Bunny?" After a slight pause, Blanc answered, in a weak voice, "Eh... just fine, Doc. How are you?"
The doctor then asked Tweety if he was there, too. "I tawt I taw a puddy tat," was the reply.
Blanc returned home on March 17. Four days later, Blanc filed a US$500,000 lawsuit against the city of Los Angeles. His accident, one of 26 in the preceding two years at the intersection known as Dead Mans Curve#Other sharp curves Dead Mans Curve, resulted in the city funding the restructuring of curves at the location.

Years later, Blanc revealed that during his recovery, his son Noel Blanc Noel "ghosted" several Warner Bros. cartoons voice tracks for him. Warner Bros. had also asked Stan Freberg to provide the voice for Bugs Bunny, but Freberg declined, out of respect for Blanc. At the time of the accident, Blanc was also serving as the voice of Barney Rubble in The Flintstones. His absence from the show was relatively brief; Daws Butler provided the voice of Barney for a few episodes, after which the shows producers set up recording equipment in Blancs hospital room and later at his home to allow him to work from there. Some of the recordings were made while he was in full-body cast as he lay flat on his back with the other Flintstones co-stars gathered around him.
He also returned to The Jack Benny Program to film the programs 1961 Christmas show, moving around by crutches and a wheelchair.
File:Mel Blanc 1976 2.jpg thumb left upright=.9 Blanc in 1976

==Later career==
In the 1970s, Blanc gave a series of college lectures across the US and appeared in commercials for American Express. He  also collaborated on a special with the Boston-based Shriners Burns Institute called Ounce of Prevention, which became a 30-minute TV special.

Throughout the 1980s, Blanc performed his Looney Tunes characters for bridging sequences in various compilation films of Golden age of American animation Golden-Age-era Warner Bros. cartoons, such as The Looney Looney Looney Bugs Bunny Movie, Bugs Bunnys 3rd Movie: 1001 Rabbit Tales, Daffy Ducks Fantastic Island, and Daffy Ducks Quackbusters. His final performance of his "Looney Tunes" roles was in Bugs Bunnys Wild World of Sports (1989). After spending most of two seasons voicing the diminutive robot Twiki in Buck Rogers in the 25th Century (TV series) Buck Rogers in the 25th Century, Blancs last original character was Heathcliff (comic strip) Heathcliff, in the early 1980s.

In the 1983 live-action film Strange Brew, Blanc voiced the father of Bob and Doug MacKenzie, at the request of comedian Rick Moranis.

In the 1988 live-action/animated movie Who Framed Roger Rabbit, Blanc reprised several of his classic "Looney Tunes" roles (Bugs, Daffy, Porky, Tweety, and Sylvester), but left Yosemite Sam to Joe Alaskey (who later became one of Blancs regular replacements until his death in 2016).  As The Walt Disney Company Disney produced the film, the company had to obtain permission from Warner Bros. and other studios in order to feature the non-Disney characters in the movie. The film was also one of very few Disney projects Blanc was involved in. Blanc died just a year after the films release. His final recording session was for Jetsons: The Movie (1990).
{{clear left}}

==Death==
File:Mel Blanc 4-15-05.JPG thumb Blancs gravesite marker
<!-- Please seek consensus at the Talk page before editing the Death section and adding reasons other than emphysema and heart disease -->
Blanc began Tobacco smoking smoking cigarettes when he was nine years old. He continued his pack-a-day habit until he was diagnosed with Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease emphysema, which pushed him to quit at age 77.
On May 19, 1989, Blanc was checked into Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles by his family
when they noticed he had a bad cough while shooting a commercial; he was originally expected to recover. Blancs health then took a turn for the worse and doctors found that he had advanced coronary artery disease. He died on July 10 at Cedars-Sinai, at the age of 81.
