Michael Fenton Stevens (born 12 February 1958
in London), added the Fenton (his wifes name) when he became an actor and is sometimes mistakenly credited as Michael Fenton-Stevens. He is a United Kingdom British actor and comedian, a founder member of The Hee Bee Gee Bees
and the voice behind the Spitting Image 1986 number 1 hit "The Chicken Song". He also starred in KYTV (TV series) KYTV, and its BBC Radio 4 Radio 4 predecessor, Radio Active (radio series) Radio Active.
==Career==
Fenton Stevens featured in regular roles as Hank in the 1996 series The Legacy of Reginald Perrin, and as Ralph in Andy Hamiltons 2003 television sitcom Trevors World of Sport, as well as in the Radio 4 version of the latter which was broadcast in 2004. Stevens had previously appeared in a guest role in Drop the Dead Donkey, another television comedy series written by Hamilton, and appears regularly in various roles in Hamiltons Radio 4 sitcom Old Harrys Game. He has also featured in Ian Hislops sitcom My Dads the Prime Minister as the Home Secretary. He played a guest role in Coronation Street in November 2004. He plays the eponymous Inspector Steine in Lynne Truss long-running Radio 4 comedy series.

From 2004 until 2005 he appeared in two series of Julia Daviss dark comedy series Nighty Night as the Reverend Gordon Fox.

He also appeared in various roles in the The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy Tertiary to Quintessential Phases Tertiary, Quandary and Quintessential Phases of the Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy radio series. In 2006, he guest-starred in the Doctor Who audio adventure The Kingmaker. In 2007, he played Michael Wenton Weeks in Dirk Gentlys Holistic Detective Agency.

He is a very successful Pantomime Dame, having written and appeared in a number of pantomime pantos over the years. From December 2006 until January 2007, he starred in and wrote the Cambridge Arts Theatre pantomime version of Aladdin in the role of Widow Twankey. More recently, he has provided the voice of Mr Beakman, a toucan, in the CBeebies show 3rd &amp; Bird.

He has a recurring role in the sitcom My Family as Mr Griffith, the boss of the dental corporation "Cavitex". 

He also played Mr. Beans neighbour in "Mr. Bean in Room 426".

In 1995, he was reunited with his former Hee Bee Gee Bees bandmate and Radio Active and KYTV co-star Angus Deayton when he appeared in an episode of One Foot in the Grave, playing the brother-in-law of Deaytons regular character. He also appeared in Series 3 Episode 3 of Outnumbered (UK TV series) Outnumbered, as a substitute player called Lance in a tennis match, and in the "Music 2000" episode of Look Around You as the chairman of the Royal Pop and Rock Association.

In 2015, Stevens appeared as John Radcliffe (physician) Dr. John Radcliffe in the Royal Shakespeare Company Royal Shakespeare Companys production of Helen Edmundson Helen Edmundsons Queen Anne (play) Queen Anne.
He has played Sir Henry in Benidorm (TV series) Benidorm since Series 4 which was first broadcast in 2011.
