Mickey Rooney (born Joseph Yule Jr.; September 23, 1920 – April 6, 2014) was an American actor, vaudevillian, comedian, producer and radio personality. In a career spanning nine decades and continuing until shortly before his death, he appeared in more than 300 films and was one of the last surviving stars of the silent film era.
At the height of a career that was marked by precipitous declines and raging comebacks, Rooney performed the role of Andy Hardy in a series of 15 films in the 1930s and 1940s that epitomized American family values. A versatile performer, he became a celebrated character actor later in his career. Laurence Olivier once said he considered Rooney "the best there has ever been."
Clarence Brown, who directed him in two of his earliest dramatic roles, National Velvet (film) National Velvet and The Human Comedy (film) The Human Comedy, said he was "the closest thing to a genius I ever worked with."
Rooney first performed in vaudeville as a child and made his film debut at the age of six. At 14 he played Puck (A Midsummer Nights Dream) Puck in the play and later the 1935 film adaptation of A Midsummer Nights Dream (1935 film) A Midsummer Nights Dream. Critic David Thomson (film critic) David Thomson hailed his performance as "one of the cinemas most arresting pieces of magic". In 1938, he co-starred in Boys Town (film) Boys Town. At nineteen he was the first teenager to be nominated for an Oscar for his leading role in Babes in Arms (film) Babes in Arms, and he was awarded a special Academy Juvenile Award in 1939.
At the peak of his career between the ages of 15 and 25, he made 43 films, which made him one of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayers most consistently successful actors and a favorite of MGM studio head Louis B. Mayer.

Rooney was the top box-office attraction from 1939 to 1941
and one of the best-paid actors of that era,
but his career would never again rise to such heights. Conscription Drafted into the Army during World War II, he served nearly two years entertaining over two million troops on stage and radio and was awarded a Bronze Star for performing in combat zones. Returning from the war in 1945, he was too old for juvenile roles but too short to be an adult movie star, and was unable to get as many starring roles. Nevertheless, Rooneys popularity was renewed with well-received supporting roles in films such as Breakfast at Tiffanys (film) Breakfast at Tiffanys (1961), Requiem for a Heavyweight (1962), Its a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World (1963), and The Black Stallion (film) The Black Stallion (1979). In the early 1980s, he returned to Broadway in Sugar Babies (musical) Sugar Babies and again became a celebrated star. Rooney made hundreds of appearances on TV, including dramas, variety programs, and talk shows, and won an Emmy Awards Emmy in 1964, with another Emmy plus a Golden Globe for his role in Bill (1981 film) Bill (1981).

At his death, Vanity Fair (magazine) Vanity Fair called him "the original Hollywood train wreck."
He struggled with alcohol and pill addiction. Ava Gardner was his first wife, and he would go on to marry an additional seven times. Despite earning millions during his career, he had to file for bankruptcy in 1962 due to mismanagement of his finances. Shortly before his death in 2014 at age 93, he alleged mistreatment by some family members and testified before Congress about what he alleged was physical abuse and exploitation by family members. By the end of his life, his millions in earnings had dwindled to an estate that was valued at only $18,000. He died owing medical bills and back taxes, and contributions were solicited from the public.
==Early life==
Rooney was born Joseph Yule, Jr. on September 23, 1920, in Brooklyn, New York (state) New York, the only child of vaudeville vaudevillians Nellie W. Carter, from Kansas City, Missouri and Joe Yule, a native of Glasgow, Scotland.
His mother was a former chorus girl and a Burlesque burlesque performer.
When Rooney was born, his parents were appearing in a Brooklyn production of A Gaiety Girl. Rooney later recounted in his memoirs that he began performing at the age of 17 months as part of his parents routine, wearing a specially tailored tuxedo.
==Career==
===Child actor===
Rooneys parents separated when he was four years old in 1924, and he and his mother moved to Hollywood the following year. He made his first film appearance at age six in 1926, in the short Not to be Trusted.
Rooney got bit parts in films such as The Beast of the City (1932) and The Life of Jimmy Dolan (1933), which allowed him to work alongside stars such as Joel McCrea, Colleen Moore, Clark Gable, Douglas Fairbanks Jr., John Wayne and Jean Harlow. He enrolled in the Hollywood Professional School and later attended Hollywood High School, graduating in 1938.
===Mickey McGuire===
His mother saw an advertisement for a child to play the role of "Mickey McGuire" in a Mickey McGuire (film series) series of short films.
Rooney got the role and became "Mickey" for 78 of the comedies, running from 1927 to 1936, starting with Mickeys Circus (1927), his first starring role.{{efn The film was long believed lost, but in 2014 was reported found in the Netherlands.
}}{{efn The Mickey McGuire films were adapted from the Toonerville Folks Toonerville Trolley comic strip, which contained a character named Mickey McGuire. Joe Yule briefly became Mickey McGuire legally "trump an attempted copyright lawsuit so the film producer Larry Darmour would not have to pay the comic strip writers royalties" His mother also changed her surname to McGuire in an attempt to bolster the argument, but the film producers lost. The litigation settlement awarded damages to the owners of the cartoon character, compelling the twelve-year-old actor to refrain from calling himself Mickey McGuire on- and off-screen.
<br/>
During an interruption in the series in 1932, Mrs. Yule made plans to take her son on a 10-week vaudeville tour as McGuire, and Fox sued successfully to stop him from using the name. Mrs. Yule suggested the stage name of Mickey Looney for her comedian son. He altered this to Rooney, which did not infringe upon the copyright of Warner Brothers animation series called Looney Tunes.
}} During this period, he also briefly voiced Oswald the Lucky Rabbit.
He made other films in his adolescence, including several more of the McGuire films. At age 15 he played the role of Puck in the Warner Brothers all-star adaptation of A Midsummer Nights Dream (1935 film) A Midsummer Nights Dream in 1935. Rooney then moved to MGM, where he befriended Judy Garland, with whom he began making a series of musicals that propelled both of them to stardom.
===Andy Hardy, Boys Town and Hollywood stardom===
File:Rooney-Garland-ebay-1938.jpg thumb Rooney with Judy Garland in Love Finds Andy Hardy (1938)
In 1937, Rooney was selected to portray Andy Hardy in A Family Affair (1937 film) A Family Affair, which MGM had planned as a B-movie.
Rooney provided comic relief as the son of Judge James K. Hardy, portrayed by Lionel Barrymore (although Lewis Stone would play the role of Judge Hardy in subsequent films). The film was an unexpected success, and led to 13 more Andy Hardy films between 1937 and 1946, and a final film in 1958.

According to author Barry Monush, MGM wanted the Andy Hardy films to appeal to all family members. Rooneys character would portray a typical "anxious, hyperactive, girl-crazy teenager", and he soon became the unintended main star of the films. Although some critics describe the series of films as "sweet, overly idealized, and pretty much interchangeable," their ultimate success was because they gave viewers a "comforting portrait of small-town America that seemed suited for the times", with Rooney instilling "a lasting image of what every parent wished their teen could be like."
Behind the scenes, however, Rooney was like the "hyperactive girl-crazy teenager" he portrayed on the screen. Wallace Beery, his co-star in Stablemates, described him as a "brat", but a "fine actor".
MGM head Louis B. Mayer found it necessary to manage Rooneys public image, explains historian Jane Ellen Wayne:

{{quote Mayer naturally tried to keep all his child actors in line, like any father figure. After one such episode, Mickey Rooney replied, "I wont do it. Youre asking the impossible." Mayer then grabbed young Rooney by his lapels and said, "Listen to me! I dont care what you do in private. Just dont do it in public. In public, behave. Your fans expect it. Youre Andy Hardy! Youre the United States! Youre the Stars and Stripes. Behave yourself! Youre a symbol!" Mickey nodded. "Ill be good, Mr. Mayer. I promise you that." Mayer let go of his lapels, "All right," he said.
}}

Fifty years later, Rooney realized in hindsight that these early confrontations with Mayer were necessary for him to develop into a leading film star: "Everybody butted heads with him, but he listened and you listened. And then youd come to an agreement you could both live with. ... He visited the sets, he gave people talks ... What he wanted was something that was American, presented in a Cosmopolitanism cosmopolitan manner."
{{rp 323}}

File:Mickey Rooney and Spencer Tracy.jpg thumb Spencer Tracy and Rooney in a scene from Boys Town (film) Boys Town (1938)
In 1937, Rooney made his first film alongside Judy Garland with Thoroughbreds Dont Cry.
Garland and Rooney became close friends as they co-starred in future films and became a successful song-and-dance team. Audiences delighted in seeing the "playful interactions between the two stars showcase a wonderful chemistry."
Along with three of the Andy Hardy films, where she portrayed a girl attracted to Andy, they appeared together in a string of successful musicals, including Babes in Arms (film) Babes in Arms (1939). During an interview in the 1992 documentary film MGM: When the Lion Roars, Rooney describes their friendship:
<blockquote>
 Judy and I were so close we couldve come from the same womb. We werent like brothers or sisters but there was no love affair there; there was more than a love affair. Its very, very difficult to explain the depths of our love for each other. It was so special. It was a forever love. Judy, as we speak, has not passed away. Shes always with me in every heartbeat of my body.
</blockquote>
In 1937, Rooney received top billing as Shockey Carter in Hoosier Schoolboy but his breakthrough-role as a dramatic actor came in 1938s Boys Town (1938 film) Boys Town opposite Spencer Tracy as Father Flanagan, who runs a home for wayward and homeless boys. Rooney was awarded a special Academy Juvenile Award Juvenile Academy Award in 1939, for "significant contribution in bringing to the screen the spirit and personification of youth."
