Michael Patrick
OBrien (born June 22, 1976),
is an American actor, writer, and comedian known for his work as a writer and short filmmaker on Saturday Night Live. He is the creator of the 2018 NBC comedy series A.P. Bio.

==Career  ==

OBrien attended the University of Michigan, where he majored in film-video and was the founder and editor of a monthly comedy newspaper named The Anti-Daily.
OBrien moved to Chicago and began taking improv and sketch classes. At iO Chicago he performed with a group called The Reckoning (2001–present). He trained at the Second City in Chicago, eventually joining the company’s mainstage, where he performed for one year as a part of "America: All Better".
In 2015, OBrien released his sketch comedy album Tasty Radio, featuring many of the cast members and writers he worked with on Saturday Night Live.

In 2018, he created the comedy series A.P. Bio, starring Glenn Howerton and Patton Oswalt. OBriens former SNL colleagues Lorne Michaels and Seth Meyers are also executive producers on the show. The series premiered on February 1, 2018.

==Saturday Night Live==
OBrien worked as a staff writer on Saturday Night Live for seven seasons, joining the show in 2009, and also appeared as a featured player for the Saturday Night Live (season 39) 2013–14 season.
After his sole season as a featured player, he left the cast but continued to write for the show in his final season from 2014 to 2015.
Some of OBriens sketches include "Monster Pals" starring James Franco as well as "Puppet Class" starring Bill Hader. His short films "Grow a Guy" and "The Jay-Z Story" were each given the title card, "A Mike OBrien Picture" in season 40.
After leaving the writing staff in season 41, OBrien has continued to contribute short films under the title, A Mike OBrien Picture.

==7 Minutes in Heaven with Mike OBrien==
In 2011, OBrien introduced 7 Minutes in Heaven with Mike OBrien, a comedy routine in which he interviews celebrities in a closet and closes by trying to kiss the celebrity.
==Tasty Radio==
In 2015, Mike released a comedy sketch album entitled Tasty Radio, which features Bill Hader, Fred Armisen, Jason Sudeikis, Vanessa Bayer, Seth Meyers, John Mulaney, Jorma Taccone, John Lutz and Scarlett Johansson.
