Monique Angela Hicks (née Imes; born December 11, 1967),
known professionally as MoNique, is an American comedian and
<!-- DO NOT put "Academy Award winning" here: See WP:LEDE -->
actress. She first gained fame as a member of the Queens Of Comedy, as well as her role as Nicole "Nikki" Parker in the UPN series The Parkers while making a name as a stand-up comedian hosting a variety of venues, including Showtime at the Apollo. MoNique transitioned to film with roles in such films as Phat Girlz (2006) and Welcome Home Roscoe Jenkins (2008). In 2002, she, along with several other female comedians, earned a Grammy Grammy Award nomination for Grammy Award for Best Comedy Album Best Comedy Album.

In 2009, she received critical praise for her role as the abusive Mary Lee Johnston in the film Precious (film) Precious and won numerous awards, including the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress. She hosted The MoNique Show, a late-night talk show that premiered in 2009 on Black Entertainment Television BET; it was cancelled in 2011. In 2015, she received rave reviews for her performance as Ma Rainey in the HBO biopic Bessie (film) Bessie and earned a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie Primetime Emmy Award nomination.

==Early life==
MoNique was born on December 11, 1967 in Baltimore, Maryland,
the daughter of engineer Alice Imes and drug counselor Steven Imes, Jr.
She is the youngest of four children.  MoNique graduated from Milford Mill High School in Baltimore County in 1985
and attended Morgan State University.
She is a 1987 graduate of the Broadcasting Institute of Maryland.
Before she was an actress, Monique worked as a customer service representative at the phone company MCI Communications MCI in Hunt Valley, Maryland.
She got her start in comedy at the downtown Baltimore Comedy Factory Outlet when her brother Steve dared her to perform at an open mic night.

During a 2008 Essence (magazine) Essence magazine interview, MoNique revealed that she was sexually abused by her brother Gerald from ages 7–11; he went on to sexually abuse another girl and was sentenced to 12 years in prison. After her twin boys were born in 2005, MoNique cut off all contact with Gerald. On April 19, 2010, he admitted on The Oprah Winfrey Show Oprah to sexually abusing her over several years. He also was abused by family members and struggled with substance abuse.
==Career==

===Television roles===
MoNique portrayed Nicole "Nikki" Parker on the UPN television series The Parkers from 1999 to 2004. She was featured on many leading stand-up venues such as Showtime at the Apollo, Russell Simmons Def Comedy Jam, and Thank God Youre Here (US TV series) Thank God Youre Here. Monique tackles race issues in her stand up routines, for instance at the Montreal Just For Laugh Festival in 2000: white and black people, were just mad at each other, we dont know why were mad at each other. Were not each others enemy. Were not the enemy. Its the Chinese people we need to watch out for".
She was also named hostess of Showtime at the Apollo. She was the hostess and executive producer of MoNiques Fat Chance, a beauty pageant for plus-sized women, on the Oxygen (TV channel) Oxygen cable network. She hosted the first season of Flavor of Love Girls: Charm School on VH1 where she crowned Saaphyri as the winner.

MoNiques 2007 documentary I Coulda Been Your Cellmate! focuses on incarcerated women. In interviews with individual women, she touches on the common factors that bring many women into the penal system. The documentary was related to her filming a comedy special at the Ohio Reformatory for Women, also known as The Farm.{{Citation needed date=April 2010}} In 2007, MoNique had a guest-starring role on the hit television series Ugly Betty as LAmanda, Modes weekend security guard.

MoNique starred in The MoNique Show, her own late-night talk show. Taped in Atlanta, the show premiered October 5, 2009 on BET.
===Film and video career===
MoNique has had a number of supporting roles in film. She appeared in the 2008 comedy film, Welcome Home Roscoe Jenkins with Martin Lawrence. She has had roles in Beerfest,  3 Strikes (film) 3 Strikes, Two Can Play That Game, Half Past Dead, and Soul Plane. She voiced a character in Garfield: The Movie, but her role was cut from the movie.

In 2005, MoNique played a significant role in Tony Scotts thriller Domino (2005 film) Domino, co-starring Keira Knightley and Mickey Rourke. In 2006, MoNique was cast as the lead in Phat Girlz, a comedy about an aspiring fashion designer struggling to find love and acceptance. The film was met with lukewarm response from critics and fans. It did earn back its $3 million production cost in its first weekend of release.
She was featured in soul singer Anthony Hamilton (musician) Anthony Hamiltons video "Sista Big Bones", the second single from his album Aint Nobody Worryin. She plays the role of a beautiful woman whom Anthony secretly admires.

MoNique hosted the 2003 and 2004 BET Awards and appeared as the host again for the 2007 BET Awards. She received positive responses in July 2004 with her opening performance of Beyoncés single "Crazy in Love (Beyoncé Knowles song) Crazy in Love" In 2007, she performed Beyoncés "Déjà Vu (Beyoncé Knowles song) Déjà Vu".

In 2008, MoNique stated on The Oprah Winfrey Show Oprah Winfrey Show that Martin Lawrence gave her invaluable advice about show business: "He pulled me to the side and he said, Listen, dont ever let them tell you what you cant have. Since that day, Ive made some of the best deals Ive ever made in my career because it keeps ringing in my head...It will stay with me forever."
In 2009, MoNique appeared in the film Precious: Based on the Novel "Push" by Sapphire Precious, directed by Lee Daniels, portraying an inner-city teenagers abusive mother. She won the Sundance Film Festival Special Jury Prize for her performance in the film. The African-American Film Critics Association (AAFCA) awarded MoNique with the Best Supporting Actress Award in December 2009. It also announced that MoNique received the AAFCAs first ever unanimous vote in an acting category. Moreover, she received Best Supporting Actress awards from the Stockholm International Film Festival, the Washington DC Area Film Critics Association, the Los Angeles Film Critics Association, the Boston Society of Film Critics, the New York Film Critics Online, the New York Film Critics Circle, the Southeastern Film Critics Association, the San Francisco Film Critics Circle, the Dallas-Fort Worth Film Critics Association, the Las Vegas Film Critics Society, the Utah Film Critics Association, the Detroit Film Critics Society, the Indiana Film Critics Association, the Online Film Critics Society, the National Society of Film Critics Awards, the Alliance of Women Film Journalists, and the Critics Choice Awards.  Time (magazine) Time magazine ranked MoNiques outstanding performance as the Best Female Performance of 2009. She won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress, the Independent Spirit Award, and the BAFTA Award.
In November 2009, MoNique said, "I own the rights to Hattie McDaniels life story, and I cant wait to tell that story because that woman was absolutely amazing. She had to stand up to the adversity of black and white [society] at a time when we really werent accepted. Mr. Lee Daniels is going to direct it, of course, and Im going to be Miss Hattie McDaniel. I really hope I can do that woman justice."
In 2014, MoNique starred in Patrik-Ian Polks drama film Blackbird (Patrik-Ian Polk film) Blackbird as Claire Rousseau.

At a May 2017 performance, she claimed Daniels, Winfrey and Perry have been blackballing her ever since she did not promote Precious in 2009.
===Theater===
MoNiques first play was Eve Enslers Obie Award-winning production of The Vagina Monologues in March 2002. MoNique, Ella Joyce (Roc (TV series) Roc); Wendy Raquel Robinson (The Steve Harvey Show and The Game (U.S. TV series) The Game) and Vanessa Bell Calloway (Whats Love Got to Do with It (film) Whats Love Got to Do with It), were the first all black celebrity cast to perform The Vagina Monologues. Produced by YYP &amp; Associates, the show was directed by playwright and director Yetta Young as well as co-produced by Kellie R. Griffin, Lisa D. Washington and Anita Cal.

===Books and radio===
MoNique is the author of the best-selling book Skinny Women Are Evil: Notes of a Bigg Girl in a Small-Minded World. She also released a 2006 cookbook called Skinny Cooks Cant Be Trusted.

Monique was part of the Washington, D.C. WHUR radio show with George Wilborn.

In 2006, she occasionally filled in for afternoon personality Michael Baisden when his contract with Citadel Media ABC Radio was in the process of getting renewed.
In 2008, Radio One (Company) Radio One signed her to her own radio show: MoNique in the Afternoon (or The MoNique Show), which premiered on several Radio One-owned Urban Adult Contemporary-formatted R&amp;B/soul radio stations in July 2008. It mainly aired on these stations that had a local lineup because some Radio One stations did not carry it due to their contracts with Michael Baisden. The show lasted until March 18, 2009 when MoNique decided to leave to "further her career in television, film, and comedy."
==Personal life==
File:82nd Academy Awards, MoNique and Sidney Hicks.jpg right thumb MoNique and husband Sidney Hicks attending the 82nd Academy Awards
MoNique was briefly engaged to accountant Kenny Mung.
From 1997 to 2001, she was married to Mark Jackson. They have a son named Shalon Jackson.

MoNique gave birth to twin sons Jonathan and David Hicks in October 2005, two months early.
In 2006, she married their father Sidney Hicks. In a New York Times profile, she mentions that she and Hicks have an open marriage:

{{quote We have an agreement that well always be honest, and if sex happens with another person, thats not a {{sic deal break er hide=y}} for us, thats not something where well have to say, Oh God, weve got to go to divorce court because you cheated on me. Because we dont cheat.
}}

She repeated this view later on The Oprah Winfrey Show when she said that, in her prior marriages, she was constantly searching for "that extra oomph".
MoNique explained,
<blockquote>
 When I said I had an open marriage, people automatically jumped to sex. They automatically went there. But Ive been best friends with my husband since we were 14 years old. When we say open, were very honest. There are no secrets. Oftentimes you have people that are married, but theyre strangers, and we refuse to be those people.
</blockquote>
She concluded, "Ive had to sneak and Ive had to lie, and I dont want to do that any more. But my husband is so awesome and so fine and so—oh, girl...No other man can compare".
