Moses Harry Horwitz (June 19, 1897 – May 4, 1975), known professionally as Moe Howard, was an American actor and comedian best known as the de facto leader of the Three Stooges, the farce comedy team who starred in motion pictures and television for four decades. That group originally started out as Ted Healy Ted Healy and His Stooges, an act that toured the vaudeville circuit. Moes distinctive hairstyle came about when he was a boy and cut off his curls with a pair of scissors, producing a ragged shape approximating a bowl cut.

==Early life==
Howard was born as Moses Harry Horwitz on June 19, 1897, in the Brooklyn, New York City neighborhood of Bensonhurst, Brooklyn Bensonhurst to Solomon Horwitz and Jennie Gorovitz, the fourth-born of five brothers of Lithuanian Jewish ancestry. He was named Moe when he was younger and later called himself Harry. Howards parents and brothers, Benjamin and Irving, were not involved in show business, but his older brother Shemp Howard, younger brother Curly Howard, and he all eventually became known as members of the Three Stooges. He loved to read as his older brother Jack recalled: "I had many Horatio Alger, Jr. Horatio Alger books, and it was Moes greatest pleasure to read them. They started his imaginative mind working and gave him ideas by the dozen. I think they were instrumental in putting thoughts into his head to become a person of good character and to become successful." This helped him in his acting career in later years, such as in memorizing his lines quickly and easily.

Howards "bowl cut" hairstyle became his trademark, despite his mother initially refusing to cut his hair in childhood, letting it grow to shoulder length. He secretly cut his hair in his backyard shed, after being frequently teased in school.  During one appearance on the Mike Douglas show in the 1970s, he stated that "I used to fight my way to school, in school, and back home from school."
Howard began to develop an interest in acting to the point where his grades worsened and began to play truancy hookey from school. He said, "I used to stand outside the theater knowing the truant officer was looking for me. I would stand there til someone came along, and then ask them to buy my ticket. It was necessary for an adult to accompany a juvenile into the theater. When I succeeded Id give him my ten cents—thats all it cost—and Id go up to the top of the balcony where Id put my chin on the rail and watch, spellbound, from the first act to the last. I would usually select the actor I liked the most and follow his performance throughout the play."
Despite his waning attendance, Howard graduated from P.S. 163 in Brooklyn, but dropped out of Erasmus Hall High School after only two months, ending his formal education. He took an electric shop course for his parents wishes, but quit after a few months to pursue a career in show business.
