Norman Gene Macdonald
(born October 17, 1959)
is a Canadian stand-up comedian, writer, producer and actor. He is known for his five seasons as a cast member on Saturday Night Live, which included anchoring Weekend Update for three years. Early in his career, he wrote for the sitcom Roseanne (TV series) Roseanne and made appearances on shows including The Drew Carey Show and NewsRadio. He starred in The Norm Show from 1999 to 2001. Paste (magazine) Paste named him #31 on their The 50 Best Stand-up Comics of All Time.
{{Nothing}}

==Early life==
Macdonald was born in Quebec City, Canada.
He has a brother, Neil Macdonald, who is a journalist with CBC News.
Their parents, Percy (died 1990) and Ferne,
<!--"Ferne" is correct spelling-->
were teachers.
He attended Quebec High School in Quebec
and/or Gloucester High School in Ontario, Canada.
==Career==
Macdonalds first performances in comedy were at stand-up comedy stand-up clubs in Ottawa. He appeared at the 1987 Just For Laughs Comedy Festival in Montreal.
===Saturday Night Live===
Macdonald joined the cast of NBCs Saturday Night Live (SNL) television program in 1993, where he performed impressions of Larry King, Burt Reynolds, David Letterman, Quentin Tarantino, Charles Kuralt and Bob Dole, among others. Following Kevin Nealons departure from SNL, Macdonald anchored the segment "Weekend Update". Current "Weekend Update" anchor and writer Colin Jost named Macdonald as a primary influence on Josts own work behind the "Update" desk, explaining that Macdonalds tone was one that Jost grew up with in high school.
Macdonalds version of "Weekend Update" often included references to prison rape, crack whores, and the Germans love of Baywatch star David Hasselhoff. Macdonald would occasionally deliver a piece of news, then take out his personal compact tape recorder and leave a "note to self" relevant to what he just discussed. He commonly used Frank Stallone as a Non sequitur (absurdism) non sequitur Punch line punchline. Macdonald repeatedly ridiculed public figures such as Marion Barry, Hillary Clinton, Michael Jackson and O. J. Simpson. Throughout O. J. Simpson murder case Simpsons murder trial, Macdonald constantly pilloried the former football star, often heavily implying Simpson was guilty of the brutal slaying of his ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson Nicole and her friend Ronald Goldman. In the broadcast following Simpsons acquittal, Macdonald opened "Weekend Update" by saying: "Well, it is finally official: Murder is legal in the state of California."

During the February 24, 1996, episode, Macdonald made a controversial joke about the sentencing of John Lotter, one of the two men who committed the notorious murder of Brandon Teena: "In Falls City, Nebraska, John Lotter has been sentenced to death for attempting to kill three people in what prosecutors called a plot to silence a cross-dressing female who had accused him of rape. Now this might strike some viewers as harsh, but I believe everyone involved in this story should die."
After the announcement that Michael Jackson and Lisa Marie Presley planned to divorce, Macdonald joked about their irreconcilable differences on "Weekend Update": "Shes more of a stay-at-home type, and hes more of a homosexual pedophile." He followed this up a few episodes later with a report about the singers collapse and hospitalization. Referring to a report that Jackson had decorated his hospital room with giant photographs of Shirley Temple, Macdonald remarked that viewers should not get the wrong idea, adding, "Michael Jackson is a homosexual pedophile."

On the April 12, 1997, show (host Rob Lowe, musical guest The Spice Girls), during a "Weekend Update" story about Tabitha Soren, Macdonald accidentally coughed in the middle of a sentence and muttered, "What the fuck was that?" The audience applauded, and Macdonald laughed the error away (saying at one point "My farewell performance" and, in closing, "Maybe well see you next week").

====Leaving SNL====
In early 1998, Don Ohlmeyer had Macdonald removed as "Weekend Update" anchor, citing declining ratings and a dropoff in quality. Macdonald and others believed that the real reason for his dismissal was his series of jokes calling O. J. Simpson a murderer during and after the O. J. Simpson murder case trial; Ohlmeyer was good friends with Simpson and supported him during the proceedings.
After being removed from the role, Macdonald went on CBSs Late Show with David Letterman and Howard Sterns syndicated radio show accusing Ohlmeyer of firing him for making jokes about Simpson.
