Lisa Olivia Munn (born July 3, 1980) is an American actress and model. She began her professional career in television journalism before becoming an actress. In 2006, Munn starred as Mily Acuna on the series Beyond the Break. She co-hosted Attack of the Show! from 2006 to 2010 and was a correspondent on The Daily Show from 2010 to 2011. 

Munn has also had supporting roles in various films and television series since 2004. She played the character Sloan Sabbith on the television series The Newsroom (U.S. TV series) The Newsroom from 2012 to 2014, and has appeared in the films Magic Mike (2012), the horror film Deliver Us from Evil (2014 film) Deliver Us from Evil (2014), the comedy Mortdecai (film) Mortdecai (2014), and X-Men: Apocalypse (2016) as Psylocke. In 2017, she provided the voice of Koko in The Lego Ninjago Movie, and also had a lead role on the History (U.S. TV network) History Channel series Six (TV series) Six (2017).

==Early life==
Lisa Olivia Munn was born July 3, 1980
in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Her father, Winston Barrett Munn, is an American of English, Irish and German descent.
Her mother, Kimberly Schmid, was born and raised in Vietnam, and is of Chinese descent.
Her mother was a Vietnamese refugee who fled to Oklahoma in 1975 after the Vietnam War.
After college, her mother married Winston.
When Munn was two years old, her parents divorced and her mother remarried to a member of the United States Air Force. Although the family relocated many times, Munn was predominantly raised on Yokota Air Base near Tachikawa in Tokyo, Japan,
where her stepfather was stationed. During this time, she appeared in a number of local theater productions and later became a model in the Japanese fashion industry.
She has said that her stepfather was "verbally abusive" and demeaning.
Munn has one brother, John, a physicist, and a sister, Sara, who is a lawyer.
Her mother and stepfather divorced when Munn was a teenager, and she moved back to Oklahoma with her mother, where she attended Putnam City North High School for her junior and senior years of high school.
After graduating, Munn attended the University of Oklahoma, where she earned a Bachelor of Arts B.A. in journalism with a minor in Japanese language Japanese and dramatic arts.
