Paul Gladney (born August 4, 1941), better known by the stage name Paul Mooney, is an American comedian,
writer, social criticism social critic, and television and film actor. He is best known for his appearances on Chappelles Show and as a writer for comedian Richard Pryor.
==Early life==
Mooney was born in Shreveport, Louisiana, and moved to Oakland, California, seven years later.
His parents are George Gladney and LaVoya Ealy.
Mooney was raised primarily by his grandmother Aimay Ealy, known among the family as "Mama".
Mama coined the nickname "Mooney" after the original Scarface (1932 film) Scarface (1932) actor Paul Muni.
==Career==
Mooney became a ringmaster (circus) ringmaster with the Gatti-Charles Circus. During his stint as ringmaster, he always found himself writing comedy and telling jokes, which later helped Mooney land his first professional work as a writer for Richard Pryor.

Mooney wrote some of Pryors routines for his appearance on Saturday Night Live, co-wrote his material for the Richard Pryor: Live on the Sunset Strip Live on the Sunset Strip, Bicentennial Nigger, and ...Is It Something I Said? Is It Something I Said albums, and Pryors film Jo Jo Dancer, Your Life Is Calling. As the head writer for The Richard Pryor Show, he gave many young comics, such as Robin Williams, Sandra Bernhard, Marsha Warfield, John Witherspoon (actor) John Witherspoon, and Tim Reid, their first break into show business.

Mooney also wrote for Redd Foxxs Sanford and Son and Good Times, acted in several cult classics including Which Way Is Up?, Bustin Loose (film) Bustin Loose, Hollywood Shuffle, and portrayed singer/songwriter Sam Cooke in The Buddy Holly Story.

He was the head writer for the first year of Fox Broadcasting Company Foxs In Living Color, inspiring the character Homey D. Clown, played by Damon Wayans. Mooney later went on to play Wayans father in the Spike Lee film Bamboozled as the comedian Junebug.

Mooney initially appeared in the sketches "Ask a Black Dude" and "Mooney at the Movies" on Comedy Centrals Chappelles Show. He later appeared as Negrodamus, an African American version of Nostradamus. As Negrodamus, Mooney Ad lib ad-libbed the "answers to lifes most unsolvable mysteries" such as "Why do white people love Wayne Brady?" (Answer: "Because Wayne Brady makes Bryant Gumbel look like Malcolm X.") Mooney was planning to reprise his role as Negrodamus in the third season of the Chappelles Show, before Dave Chappelle left the show due to stress, and it ended suddenly.

In 2006, Paul Mooney hosted the Black Entertainment Television BET tribute to Black History Month titled 25 Most @#%! Moments in Black History. In this show, he narrated some of the most shameful incidents involving African Americans since 1980. The top 25 moments included incidents involving Marion Barry, Terrell Owens, Wilson Goode, Michael Jackson, Flavor Flav, Whitney Houston, and Tupac Shakur.

In 2007, Mooney released his first book, the memoir Black is the New White.
In November 2014, Pauls brother announced that Mooney has prostate cancer.
Mooney still continues to tour, performing his stand-up comedy act.
