Paul Edward Lynde ({{IPAc-en l ɪ n d }}; June 13, 1926{{spaced ndash}}January 11, 1982)
was an American comedian and actor.  A character actor with a distinctively campy and snarky persona that often poked fun at his barely Coming out in-the-closet homosexuality, Lynde was well known for his roles as List of Bewitched characters#Uncle Arthur Uncle Arthur on Bewitched and the befuddled father Harry MacAfee in Bye Bye Birdie (musical) Bye Bye Birdie. He was also the regular "center square" panelist on the game show Hollywood Squares from 1968 to 1981, and he voiced four Hanna-Barbera productions: he was Templeton the gluttonous rat in Charlottes Web (1973 film) Charlottes Web, Mildew Wolf from Cattanooga Cats#Its the Wolf! Its the Wolf (a segment of Cattanooga Cats), neighbor Claude Pertwee on Wheres Huddles? and The Hooded Claw in The Perils of Penelope Pitstop.

==Early life==
Paul Lynde was born in Mount Vernon, Ohio, the son of Hoy Coradon and Sylvia Bell (Doup) Lynde. He graduated from Mount Vernon High School (Ohio) Mount Vernon High School in 1944, and then studied drama at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, where his fellow students included Cloris Leachman, Charlotte Rae, Patricia Neal, Jeffrey Hunter and Claude Akins. At Northwestern, he joined the Upsilon chapter of Phi Kappa Sigma and is listed among the more famous members of the fraternity. He graduated in 1948 and moved to New York City, where he initially worked as a Stand-up comedy stand-up comic.
==Career==
Lynde made his Broadway theatre Broadway debut in the hit revue New Faces of 1952 in which he co-starred with fellow newcomers Eartha Kitt, Robert Clary, Alice Ghostley, and Carol Lawrence.
In his monologue from that revue, the "Trip of the Month Club," Lynde portrayed a man on crutches recounting his misadventures on the African safari he took with his late wife.
The show was filmed and released as New Faces (film) New Faces in 1954.
File:Uncle arthur bewitched 1968.JPG thumb left 180px Lynde as Uncle Arthur with Elizabeth Montgomery in the 1968 Bewitched episode, "The No Harm Charm"

After the revues run, Lynde co-starred in the short-lived 1956 sitcom Stanley (television series) Stanley opposite Buddy Hackett and Carol Burnett, both of whom were also starting their careers in show business. That year, he guest starred on NBCs The Martha Raye Show.

Lynde returned to Broadway in 1960 when he was cast as Harry MacAfee, the father in Bye Bye Birdie. He also played the role in the Bye Bye Birdie (film) 1963 film adaptation. That year, he recorded a live album, Recently Released, issued as an LP record. All six tracks were written by him. Once he could afford writers, he rarely used his own material until his tenure on Hollywood Squares years later.

Lynde was in great demand in the 1960s. During the 1961-62 television season he was a regular on NBCs The Perry Como Show as part of the Kraft Music Hall players with Don Adams, Kaye Ballard and Sandy Stewart (singer) Sandy Stewart. He was a familiar face on many sitcoms, including The Phil Silvers Show, The Patty Duke Show, The Munsters, The Flying Nun, Gidget (TV series) Gidget, I Dream of Jeannie, F Troop, and variety shows such as The Ed Sullivan Show and The Dean Martin Show. He also was featured in a number of 1960s films, including Send Me No Flowers and The Glass Bottom Boat, both starring Doris Day.

Lyndes best known sitcom role was on Bewitched, where he made his debut appearance in the first-season episode "Driving Is the Only Way to Fly." His role as Samantha Stephens nervous driving instructor Harold Harold was well received by viewers, as well as series star Elizabeth Montgomery and her husband, director/producer William Asher, with whom Lynde became good friends. Asher then created the recurring role of Endoras practical-joking brother List of Bewitched characters#Uncle Arthur Uncle Arthur. Lynde made 10 appearances on Bewitched as the beloved character, and was regularly seen with Montgomery and Asher off the set as well.
