}}
{{Atheism sidebar people}}

Penn Fraser Jillette (born March 5, 1955) is an American Magic (illusion) magician, juggler, comedian, musician, inventor, actor, filmmaker, television personality and best-selling author known for his work with fellow magician Teller (magician) Teller as half of the team Penn &amp; Teller. The duo have been featured in numerous stage and television shows such as Penn &amp; Teller: Fool Us, and Penn &amp; Teller: Bullshit, and are currently headlining in Las Vegas at The Rio. Jillette serves as the acts orator and raconteur.

He has published 8 books, including the New York Times Bestseller, God, No! God, No!: Signs You May Already Be an Atheist and Other Magical Tales. He is also known for his advocacy of atheism, scientific skepticism, the First Amendment to the United States Constitution First Amendment, libertarianism, and free-market capitalism.

==Early life==

Jillette was born in Greenfield, Massachusetts. His mother, Valda Rudolph Jillette (née Parks; 1909–2000),
was a secretary, and his father, Samuel Herbert Jillette (1912–1999),
worked at Greenfields Franklin County Jail.
Jillette became an atheist in his early teens after reading the Bible and was subsequently asked to leave the church after asking questions in a youth group that also made skeptics of his peers.
Jillette became disenchanted with traditional illusionist acts that presented the craft as authentic magic, such as The Amazing Kreskin on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson. At age eighteen, he saw a show by illusionist James Randi, and became enamored of his approach to magic that openly acknowledged deception as entertainment rather than a mysterious supernatural power. Jillette regularly acknowledges Randi as the one person on the planet he loves the most besides members of his family.
Jillette worked with high school classmate Michael Moschen in developing and performing a juggling act during the years immediately following their 1973 graduation.
In 1974, Jillette graduated from Ringling Bros. and Barnum &amp; Bailey Clown College.
That same year, he was introduced to Teller (magician) Teller by Weir Chrisemer, a mutual friend.
The three then formed a three-person act called Asparagus Valley Cultural Society which played in Amherst, Massachusetts Amherst and San Francisco.
In 1981, he and Teller teamed up as Penn &amp; Teller, and went on to do a successful Off Broadway and later Broadway theatre show called "Penn &amp; Teller" that toured nationally.
==Career==
While the off-Broadway hit was running, in 1988 Jillette was in a speed mariachi power trio called Bongos, Bass and Bob. He played bass; bongos were by Dean J. Seal; and guitar was by Rob "Bob" Elk (Running Elk). The latter two became the a capella comedy duo Mr. Elk and Mr. Seal after the band broke up due to Jillettes movie commitments. They recorded an album with Kramer (musician) Kramer at Noise New York called Never Mind the Sex Pistols, Heres Bongos Bass and Bob (What on Earth Were They Thinking?). It was released to almost no notice outside of a mention in Spin (magazine) Spin Magazine, but was immortalized with a claymation video of the single, "Oral Hygiene".

Jillette was a contributor to the now-defunct PC/Computing magazine, having a regular back-section column between 1990 and 1994. He and the magazine parted ways over a dispute with a new editor James Martin in  {{date September 2014}}.{{citation needed date=September 2014}} Jillette felt the new editor was trying to tell him how to write his column and what topics he should be covering. Jillette asserts that he is unsure if he was fired or if he actually quit.{{citation needed date=September 2014}}

Jillette was the primary voice announcer for the U.S.-based cable network Comedy Central in the 1990s.
In 1994, Jillette purchased a house in Las Vegas Valley and dubbed it "The Slammer".
It has been featured in dozens of television shows and articles and was designed by his friend Colin Summers. He formerly recorded music there, and conducted his radio show at the studio inside "The Slammer".
In 2016, he sold "The Slammer" so that his family could move to a less remote location.
Starting in 1996, Jillette had a recurring role on Sabrina the Teenage Witch (1996 TV series) Sabrina the Teenage Witch as Drell, the head of the Witches Council. He and Teller both appeared in the pilot with Debbie Harry as the third member of the Council. The show was created by Jillettes friend Nell Scovell.

Penn and Teller appear as comedians Rebo and Zooty in the 5th-season episode of Babylon 5, "The Day of the Dead", written by Neil Gaiman.

For a brief time in 1997, Jillette wrote bi-weekly dispatches for the search engine Excite.com. Each column ended with a pithy comment identifying which of the Penn &amp; Teller duo he was. (For example: "Penn Jillette is the half of Penn &amp; Teller thats detained at airports.") Jillette made a habit of linking many words in his online column to wacky sites that generally had nothing to do with the actual words. The columns are no longer available on the current Excite.com site, but have been republished with permission at PennAndTeller.com.
Starting in 2003, Jillette, along with Teller, began producing and hosting the show Penn &amp; Teller: Bullshit! on Showtime (TV network) Showtime. In the show, the two analyze cultural phenomena, debunk myths, criticize people and aspects of society they deem "bullshit".

In 2005 with actor Paul Provenza, Jillette co-produced and co-directed The Aristocrats (film) The Aristocrats, a documentary film tracing the life of an obscene joke known as The Aristocrats (joke) "The Aristocrats". It principally consists of a variety of comedians telling their own versions of the joke.

From January 3, 2006, to March 2, 2007, Jillette hosted, along with fellow atheist, skeptic, and juggler Michael Goudeau, a live, hour-long Talk radio radio talk show broadcast on Free FM. The show, Penn Radio, broadcast from his #Vintage Nudes Studio Vintage Nudes Studio in his Las Vegas home. The most notable recurring segment of the show was "Monkey Tuesday" and later "The Pull of the Weasel". On March 2, 2007, Jillette announced that he would no longer be doing his radio show. He stated that he is a "show biz wimp" and decided to stop doing the show so he could spend more time with his children.

During the 2006–07 television season, Jillette hosted the prime-time game show Identity (game show) Identity on NBC-TV.

In 2008, Jillette was a contestant on Dancing with the Stars (U.S. season 6) Dancing with the Stars, paired with professional dancer Kym Johnson. He was the first celebrity to be eliminated. A reference to his large feet as a sign of another large body part was bleeped in the West Coast airing.{{Citation needed date=March 2011}}

During 2010–2011, Jillette did a bi-weekly show on Revision3 called Penn Point.
On August 16, 2011, Jillettes book God, No! Signs You May Already Be An Atheist and Other Magical Tales was released and made the New York Times Best Sellers shortly after, in the week of August 28, in the 14th position.
An avid upright bassist, Jillette frequently accompanies jazz pianist Mike Jones (jazz musician) Mike Jones, who opens for the magicians Las Vegas show.
On March 16, 2018, Jones released a live jazz album with Jillette entitled The Show Before the Show which consisted of ten tracks played by the duo at the Rio Las Vegas. Jillette additionally performed at the famed Green Mill Cocktail Lounge to coincide with the albums debut.
Jillette was one of the contestants on The Celebrity Apprentice 5 The Celebrity Apprentice season 5, beginning on February 19, 2012. He was fired from the show by Donald Trump during the Week 11 episode. Also on February 19, 2012, along with Michael Goudeau, he started the podcast Penn Jillette#Podcasts Penns Sunday School.

In 2013, he returned for the All-Star Celebrity Apprentice season, where he successfully made his way to the finale, raising $663,655 for the charity of his choice, Opportunity Village.
On April 5, 2013, Penn and Teller were honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in the live performance category. Their star, the 2,494th awarded, is near the star dedicated to Harry Houdini.
The following day they were recognized by the Magic Castle with the "Magicians of the Year" award.
Penn credits magician and Skeptical movement skeptical activist James Randi for his career. During an interview at The Amazing Meeting TAM! 2012, Penn stated that "If not for Randi there would not be Penn &amp; Teller as we are today."
{{rp 1:40}} He went on to say that "Outside of my family... no one is more important in my life. Randi is everything to me."
