Phil Silvers (May 11, 1911 – November 1, 1985) was an American entertainer and comedic actor, known as "The King of Chutzpah". He is best known for starring in The Phil Silvers Show, a 1950s sitcom set on a United States Army U.S. Army post in which he played Master Sergeant Ernest (Ernie) Bilko.

==Early life and career==
Born Philip Silver
or Philip Silversmith
on May 11, 1911, in Brooklyn, New York (state) New York, in the working-class Brownsville, Brooklyn Brownsville section,
he was the eighth and youngest child of Russian Jewish immigrants, Saul and Sarah (née Handler) Silver. His siblings were Lillian, Harry, Jack, Saul, Pearl, Michael, and Reuben Silver. His father, a sheet metal worker, helped build the early New York skyscrapers.

Silvers started entertaining at age 11, when he would sing in theaters when the film projector broke down (a common occurrence in those days), to the point where he was allowed to keep attending the same movie theater free of charge, to sing through any future breakdowns.
By age 13, he was working as a singer in the Gus Edwards Revue, and then worked in vaudeville and as a burlesque comic.
Silvers next worked in short films for the Vitaphone studio, such as Ups and Downs (1937 film) Ups and Downs (1937), and on Broadway theatre Broadway, where he made his début in the short-lived show Yokel Boy in 1939. Critics raved about Silvers, who was hailed as the bright spot in the mediocre play.
The Broadway revue High Kickers (1941) was based on his concept.
He made his feature film début in Hit Parade of 1941 in 1940
(his previous appearance as a pitch man in Strike Up the Band (film) Strike Up the Band was cut). Over the next two decades, he worked as a character actor for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Columbia Pictures Columbia, and 20th Century Fox, in such films as All Through the Night (film) All Through the Night (1942) with Humphrey Bogart. That same year, he played a scene with W. C. Fields in Tales of Manhattan which was cut from the original release, but restored decades later in home video issues. Silvers also appeared in Lady Be Good (1941 film) Lady Be Good (1941), Coney Island (1943 film) Coney Island (1943), Cover Girl (film) Cover Girl (1944) and Summer Stock (1950).
When the studio system began to decline, he returned to the stage. Cover Girl demonstrates that Silvers was an accomplished dancer, performing flawlessly in quick-tempo trios with famed dancers Gene Kelly and Rita Hayworth.

Silvers wrote the lyrics for Frank Sinatras "Nancy (With the Laughing Face)". 
Although he was not a songwriter, he wrote the lyrics while visiting composer Jimmy Van Heusen. The two composed the song for Van Heusens writing partner Johnny Burke, for his wife Bessies birthday. Substituting Sinatras little daughters name Nancy at her birthday party, the trio pressed the singer to record it himself. The song became a popular hit in 1945 and was a staple in Sinatras live performances.
Towards the end of the Second World War, Silvers entertained the troops during several successful overseas United Service Organizations USO tours with Sinatra.
Silvers scored a major triumph in Top Banana (musical) Top Banana, a Broadway show of 1952. Silvers played Jerry Biffle, the egocentric, always-busy star of a major television show. (The character is said to have been based on Milton Berle.) Silvers dominated the show and won a Tony Award for his performance. He repeated the role in Top Banana (film) the 1954 film version that was originally released in 3-D film 3-D.
