Raymond Albert Romano (born December 21, 1957) is an American stand-up comedian, actor and screenwriter. He is best known for his role on the sitcom Everybody Loves Raymond, for which he received an Emmy Award, and as the voice of Manny in the Ice Age (franchise) Ice Age film series. He created and starred in the TNT (U.S. TV network) TNT comedy-drama Men of a Certain Age (2009–11). From 2012 to 2015, Romano had a recurring role as Hank Rizzoli, a love interest of Sarah Braverman in Parenthood (2010 TV series) Parenthood, and co-starred in the romantic comedy The Big Sick (2017).

==Personal life and family==
Romano was born in Queens, New York, the son of Lucie (née Fortini), a piano teacher, and Albert Romano (November 7, 1925 – March 11, 2010), a real estate agent and engineer.
He is of Italian descent.
He grew up in the Forest Hills, Queens Forest Hills neighborhood of Queens.
He has an older brother, Richard (born in 1956), a sergeant with the New York City Police Department NYPD, and a younger brother, Robert, a second grade teacher in New York City.
Romano married his wife, Anna Scarpulla, in 1987. They met while working at a bank together.
They have four children.

Romanos characters daughter on Everybody Loves Raymond was named after his real-life daughter. Also, in the series pilot, Ray and Debras twin boys were named Gregory and Matthew, after Romanos real-life twin sons, but Romano felt it was inconvenient to have all his TV children have the same names as his real children, and changed the twins names to Geoffrey and Michael on screen. He also said his brother was not pleased with Ray Barones TV brother.
Romanos family has made various appearances in the show. Romanos real-life daughter Alexandra "Ally" Romano made several appearances on Everybody Loves Raymond as Molly, the best friend of his on-screen daughter, Ally, and the daughter of Ray Barones nemesis, Peggy the Cookie Lady. Romanos father, Albert Romano, has made various appearances as Albert, one of Frank Barones lodge buddies in various episodes such as "Debra at the Lodge", and "Boys Therapy". Romanos brother, Richard Romano, appeared in the episodes "Golf For It", "Just a Formality" and "The Toaster". Romanos wife Anna appeared as one of the moms in the background at Geoffrey and Michaels school in season 6s episode titled "The Angry Family."

In February 2012, Romano revealed that his wife Anna had successfully battled Breast cancer classification stage one breast cancer in 2010. Romano told People (magazine) People magazine that "the reason were going public is to share our experience, yeah, but to have an effect. Our goal is to help people."
Romano also remained close to Doris Roberts, who played his characters mother on Everyone Loves Raymond.  At the time of her death, Romano said he was inspired by her desire to continue learning throughout her life.  She also served as a mentor, helping him to feel more comfortable on set.
==Career==
Romano attended primary education elementary and middle school at Our Lady Queen of Martyrs in Forest Hills. After transferring from Archbishop Molloy High School, Romano graduated from Hillcrest High School (New York City) Hillcrest High School in 1975.
He was in the same high school class as Fran Drescher. Before getting into show business, Romano briefly attended Queens College, City University of New York Queens College, in Flushing, New York, where he studied accounting.
