Richard "Red" Skelton (July 18, 1913{{spaced ndash}}September 17, 1997) was an American comedian comedy entertainer. He was best known for his national old-time radio radio and television acts between 1937 and 1971, and as host of the television program The Red Skelton Show. He has stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for his work in radio and television, and also appeared in burlesque, vaudeville, films, nightclubs, and casinos, all while he pursued an entirely separate career as an artist.

Skelton began developing his comedic and pantomime skills from the age of 10, when he became part of a traveling medicine show. He then spent time on a showboat, worked the burlesque circuit, and then entered into vaudeville in 1934. The "Doughnut Dunkers" pantomime sketch, which he wrote together with his wife, launched a career for him in vaudeville, radio, and films. His radio career began in 1937 with a guest appearance on The Fleischmanns Yeast Hour, which led to his becoming the host of Avalon Time in 1938. He became the host of The Raleigh Cigarette Program in 1941, on which many of his comedy characters were created, and he had a regularly scheduled radio program until 1957. Skelton made his film debut in 1938 alongside Ginger Rogers and Douglas Fairbanks, Jr. in Alfred Santells Having Wonderful Time, and he went on to appear in numerous musical and comedy films throughout the 1940s and early 1950s, with starring roles in Ship Ahoy (1941), I Dood It (1943), Ziegfeld Follies (film) Ziegfeld Follies (1946), and The Clown (1953 film) The Clown (1953).

Skelton was most eager to work in television, even when the medium was in its infancy. The Red Skelton Show made its television premiere on September 30, 1951, on NBC. By 1954, Skeltons program moved to CBS, where it was expanded to one hour and renamed The Red Skelton Hour in 1962. Despite high ratings, the show was cancelled by CBS in 1970, as the network believed that more youth-oriented programs were needed to attract younger viewers and their spending power. Skelton moved his program to NBC, where he completed his last year with a regularly scheduled television show in 1971. He spent his time after that making as many as 125 personal appearances a year and working on his art.

Skeltons artwork of clowns remained a hobby until 1964 when his wife Georgia persuaded him to have a showing at the Sands Hotel and Casino Sands Hotel in Las Vegas while he was performing there. Sales of his originals were successful, and he also sold prints and lithographs of them, earning $2.5 million yearly on lithograph sales. At the time of his death, his art dealer believed that Skelton had earned more money through his paintings than from his television work.

Skelton believed that his lifes work was to make people laugh; he wanted to be known as a clown because he defined it as being able to do everything. He had a 70-year career as a performer and entertained three generations of Americans. His widow donated many of his personal and professional effects to Vincennes University, including prints of his artwork. They are part of the Red Skelton Museum of American Comedy at Vincennes.

==Biography==

===Early years, the medicine show and the circus (1913–1929)===
Born Richard Bernard Eheart{{sfn Hyatt 2004 p=6}} on July 18, 1913, in Vincennes, Indiana, Skelton was the fourth and youngest son of Ida Mae (née Fields) and Joseph Elmer Skelton. Joseph, a grocer, died two months before Richard was born; he had once been a clown with the Hagenbeck-Wallace Circus.
His birth certificate surname was that of his fathers stepfather. During Skeltons lifetime there was some dispute about the year of his birth. Author Wesley Hyatt suggests that since he began working at such an early age, Skelton may have claimed he was older than he actually was in order to gain employment.{{sfn Hyatt 2004 p=6}}{{efn Skeltons birth certificate lists him as Richard Bernard Eheart. The Eheart surname comes from Josephs stepfather, and it appears that Joseph also used his stepfathers surname at times.{{sfn Hyatt 2004 p=6}} In a 1983 appearance on The Tonight Show, Skelton said his middle name was really "Red" and he had made up the middle name Bernard to satisfy a schoolteacher who would not believe his middle name was really "Red", although this story he presented in the comedy interview appearance does not match the reported content of his birth certificate. There is also an account of Skeltons using the birth certificate of one of his older brothers as proof that he was legally of age.
