Rhodri Paul Gilbert (born 18 October 1968) is a Welsh comedian who was nominated in 2005 for the Edinburgh Comedy Awards Perrier Best Newcomer Award. In 2008, he was nominated for the main comedy award (as the Edinburgh Comedy Awards were then branded).
Gilbert appears on television and radio panel shows, has performed stand-up on the Royal Variety Performance, and hosts a weekly show on BBC Radio Wales.
On 29 September 2014, Gilbert started presenting the BBC Two panel show Never Mind the Buzzcocks, ending a run of five series without a List of Never Mind the Buzzcocks presenters permanent host.
However, the show was axed by the BBC in May 2015.

==Personal life==
Gilbert was born in Carmarthen, Wales, one of three siblings to two teacher parents. He attended Queen Elizabeth High School, Carmarthen Maridunum Comprehensive School and went on to study languages at University of Exeter Exeter University.
For the first three weeks, such was his painful shyness that Gilbert was unable to eat with other students in the canteen or even make friends with the student in the next room.
After graduating, Gilbert travelled for a year and a half around Australia and Asia before returning to Carmarthen and working as an admin assistant for the Welsh Office.
Gilbert later worked as a qualitative researcher for several market research agencies in London.
Gilbert married his long-term girlfriend, writer and comedian Sian Harries, in August 2013. They split their time between London and Wales.
==Career==

===Stand-up comedy===
Gilbert got into professional comedy in 2002, after taking part in the Amused Moose Stand Up and Deliver course,
but only "thanks to a girlfriend’s constant nagging".
Within 18 months, Gilbert had already won several different talent competitions
and was nominated for the Perrier Newcomer award for his first solo show in 2005 at Edinburgh Festival Fringe Edinburgh Fringe entitled 1984.
He has since performed worldwide.
Many of Gilberts stories are drawn from real life events, and his life in the wholly fictionalised village of Llanbobl. In 2008, Gilbert wrote a sitcom about life in Llanbobl, which featured on BBC Radio 2.
In his 2006 Edinburgh Fringe show Knocking on Heavens Door, Gilbert told stories from his life, weighing up whether he would be admitted to heaven. His 2007 show, Whos Eaten Gilberts Grape? saw Gilbert return to Llanbobl and pick up the story following the 1984 show narrative. His 2008 show, Rhod Gilbert and the Award-Winning Mince Pie, saw Gilbert question his sanity, his career and his life after suffering a mental breakdown brought on by the award-winning mince pie at a motorway services.

On 17 December 2008, he appeared at the 80th Royal Variety Performance.
On 18 and 19 June 2009, Gilbert made the last performances of Rhod Gilbert and the Award-Winning Mince Pie show at the Bloomsbury Theatre, which was recorded and released as a DVD on 16 November 2009.
The DVD also contains several special features, including his infamous rant about lost luggage, outtakes from the performance and a mockumentary called Back To Llanbobl in which Gilbert shows the viewer around his fictional home town.

Gilberts 2009/10 show, entitled Rhod Gilbert and the Cat That Looked Like Nicholas Lyndhurst, was announced on 5 April. The show previewed around the UK in small venues, before being performed at the Edinburgh Festival. The show toured UK theatres from September 2009.
The tour included dates at many prestigious theatres such as Londons HMV Hammersmith Apollo. A DVD of the tour was released on 15 November 2010.
====Tours====
* 1984
* Knocking on Heavens Door
* Whos eaten Gilberts Grape
* The Award Winning Mince Pie
* The Cat That Looked Like Nicholas Lyndhurst
* The Man with the Flaming Battenberg Tattoo

====Stand-Up DVDs====
{  class="wikitable" border="1"
 -
!Title
!Released
!Notes
 -
  The Award-Winning Mince Pie
  16 November 2009
  Live at Londons Bloomsbury Theatre
 -
  The Cat That Looked Like Nicholas Lyndhurst
  15 November 2010
  Live at Londons HMV Hammersmith Apollo
 -
  The Man with the Flaming Battenberg Tattoo
  19 November 2012
  Live at Londons HMV Hammersmith Apollo
 }

===Television===
Gilbert has appeared three times on the BBC Two panel show Mock the Week, and guest presented two episodes of Never Mind the Buzzcocks in October 2009 and December 2011 before becoming the permanent presenter for the final series. He guest hosted three episodes of Have I Got News for You in April 2011, October 2017, and May 2018, has appeared as a guest on Channel 4s 8 out of 10 Cats, and has used his comedy talents to write and narrate BBC Threes 2007 Goals Galore, Pranks Galore, Football Gaffes Galore and TV Gaffes Galore programmes.
He has also presented BBC 2Ws Rhod Gilberts Teen Tribes, providing an insight into the teen tribal worlds of "Emos", "Chavs" and "Goths".

Gilbert was Paramount Comedys continuity writer and announcer between September 2004 and October 2005, providing end-credit voice-overs for their peaktime programme schedule.

In December 2008, Gilbert was signed for an advertising campaign to further promote tourism in Wales
and became the official Voice of Wales for the countrys tourist-board, fronting the 2009 Visit Wales television advertising.
Gilbert has done reports for the BBC One current affairs/human interest show The One Show.

In November 2008, Gilbert appeared on the BBCs Live at the Apollo (TV series) Live at the Apollo as a guest. In December 2009, he hosted the show, introducing fellow comedian John Bishop (comedian) John Bishop. On 6 June 2009 Gilbert appeared as the headline act on Michael McIntyres Comedy Roadshow on BBC One, and he guested on 8 out of 10 Cats on 17 July 2009. He also provided voiceover material for the sketch show Walk on the Wild Side (TV series) Walk on the Wild Side.

On 19 January 2010, Rhod Gilberts Work Experience aired on BBC One Wales. Zipline Creative Limited worked freelance as producer/directors, editors and also camera and sound on the series for Presentable RDF. The four-part series saw Gilbert attempt a number of jobs including hairdresser, refuse collector, soldier and parent.
Following the shows success on BBC One Wales, the series aired nationally on BBC2 from 10 March.

In August 2010, the BBC commissioned eight episodes of Ask Rhod Gilbert following a successful pilot earlier in 2010. The show featured Gilbert, Greg Davies and Lloyd Langford answering random trivia questions, such as Who would win in a race, Usain Bolt or a grizzly bear?, posed by the public and celebrities, with additional celebrity guests on the panel.
The show ran for two series.
On 7 March 2011, series 2 of Rhod Gilberts Work Experience began airing on BBC One Wales. In this series Gilbert tried out jobs as a farmer, butler, tattoo artist and firefighter.
In January 2012, Gilbert began filming series 3 of the show. It aired on BBC One Wales from 7 May 2012 and saw him take on jobs such as primary school teacher, zookeeper, Drag queen drag artist and police officer.
A fourth series was broadcast in June–July 2013.
This series, the jobs were wedding planner, scout leader, tour guide and male model. Gilbert has been asked to return for a fifth series,
and the new series was confirmed in March 2014.
Series 5, which includes four episodes, began broadcast on BBC One Wales in September 2014 and was repeated on BBC Two from February 2015.  Series 6 was broadcast on BBC One Wales starting February 2016.

The documentary Rhod Gilbert vs Kilimanjaro, chronicling the attempt to climb Mount Kilimanjaro for charity made by Gilbert and several fellow celebrities, was shown on the BBC in December 2014. 

Gilbert appeared several times on the Channel 4 comedy/game show 8 Out of 10 Cats Does Countdown.

He replaced comedian Jack Dee as the host of The Apprentice: Youre Fired! beginning in 2016.

===Radio===
In 2006, Gilbert hosted the BBC Radio Wales comedy panel show Jest a Minute, live from The Comedy Store, London The Comedy Store in London. The second series of Jest a Minute was recorded in late 2008 in Cardiffs The Glee Club (comedy club) Glee Club, hosted by Gilbert and featuring regular team captains Chris Corcoran and Lloyd Langford, and guests from the comedy circuit such as Elis James, Greg Davies, Lucy Porter and Jon Richardson (comedian) Jon Richardson. A third series was also broadcast.

Gilbert was also the host of BBC Radio 4s 4 Stands Up comedy series which aired in the Autumn of 2008 and has also appeared twice on Radio Fours Just a Minute, Radio 2s Does the Team Think?, and BBC Radio 4s Act Your Age.

In December 2008, a pilot of his sitcom Rhod Gilberts Leaving Llanbobl was broadcast on BBC Radio Two; the sitcom was written and starred Gilbert and Greg Davies, with additional writing by Sian Harries. Lloyd Langford played Gilberts amiable younger brother Emrys, Di Botcher played Brenda, a gossipy hairdresser, and Mike Hayward played Gilberts father Gurnos. The show was produced by Ed Morrish. He has hinted in interviews that the sitcom is likely to move to TV when it is completed as he found that he was "seeing it" as he wrote it.
Gilbert has also made several appearances on the BBC Radio 4 comedy program The Unbelievable Truth (radio show) The Unbelievable Truth.
In 2011, Gilbert recorded a radio show for BBC Radio 2 called Rhod Gilberts Bulging Barrel of Laughs with comedians Lloyd Langford, Greg Davies and Sarah Millican. Each show also featured live music from bands such as Athlete (band) Athlete, Scouting for Girls, Kid British and The Hoosiers. It has since been repeated on BBC Radio 4 Extra.
Gilbert also fronts his own radio show, The Rhod Gilbert Radio Show, broadcast by BBC Radio Wales on Saturdays between 11:30{{nbsp}}am and 1:30 pm,
often co-hosted by Lloyd Langford or fellow Welsh stand-up comedian Chris Corcoran.

==Awards==

2002:
* Finalist in So You Think Youre Funny.

2003:
* Winner of the Leicester Mercury comedian of the year as part of the Leicester Comedy Festival
* Winner of the Paramount Gift of the Gag competition
* Chortle Award nominee for best new act
* Winner of the BBC New Comedy Award at the 2003 Edinburgh Festival Fringe Edinburgh Festival Fringe
* Runner-up in the Hackney Empire New Act of The Year competition
* Winner of the Metro and Jongleurs Spike Award for New Talent, South East
* Winner of the National Talent Hunt at the York Festival
2005:
* Chortle award for Best Breakthrough Act
* Nominated for The List and Writers Guild Comedy Award for "Rhod Gilberts 1984"
* Perrier nominated for Best Newcomer for "Rhod Gilberts 1984."

2006:
* Placed in The Timess Top 50 Comedians
* Named one of The Rough Guide to British Cult Comedys top 50 icons.
2008:
*Nominated for the main IF.COM Eddies (formerly Perrier award) at the Edinburgh fringe for "Rhod Gilbert and the Award-winning Mince Pie"
*Winner of the Time Out Comic of the Year
*Winner of the Time Out Best Show of the Year for "Rhod Gilbert and the Award-winning Mince Pie"
*Winner of the Time Out Breakthrough Act
*Nominated for the Celtic Media awards Best Radio Personality for the "Rhod Gilbert Radio Show" on BBC Radio Wales

2009:
* Nominated for the Times/South Bank Show Awards, Breakthrough Act
* Winner of Chortle award for Best Headliner
* Winner of "Comics Comic" Chortle award
* Nominated for the Chortle award for Best Show for "Rhod Gilbert and the Award-winning Mince Pie"

2010:
* Winner of Wales Sexiest male

2014:
* Honrary Fellowship at Aberystwyth University.
