Richard Fulcher (born November 18, 1968) is an American comedian and author based in the United Kingdom. He is best known for his roles in the British comedy series The Mighty Boosh and as Edward Sheath in the American series Jon Benjamin Has a Van. He also makes appearances in Noel Fieldings more recent show, Noel Fieldings Luxury Comedy. His other appearances include Snuff Box (TV series) Snuff Box alongside Matt Berry and Unnatural Acts (TV series) Unnatural Acts with Julian Barratt and Fielding of The Mighty Boosh.

==Early life==
Fulcher was born in Massachusetts.
He attended St. Albans School (Washington, DC) St. Albans School in Washington, D.C., and then studied as a lawyer (earning a degree in government from Dartmouth College) but after graduating pursued a career in comedy instead.  He took to improvised comedy at the ImprovOlympic in Chicago, where he was one of the early members of the Upright Citizens Brigade.

Beginning in late 1992 in Chicago, Rich began working on a new long-form improvisational comedy concept – a completely improvised university lecture that would become known as Modern Problems In Science. After several months of rehearsing, Fulcher, Dick Costolo and Phil Granchi launched the show at Chicagos Annoyance Theater under the direction of Tom Keevers. The show played at the Annoyance for more than a year, after which the group took the show to the 1994 Edinburgh Festival Fringe. The show became an underground hit and placed Fulcher firmly on British comedic soil. The show later toured at comedy festivals in Australia, New Zealand, Ireland, Canada and Singapore, with a run at the Bloomsbury Theatre in London. Fulcher and the group performed the show at the 95 and 96 Edinburgh Fringe, after which time the show was made into a six-part television series for the Paramount Channel UK.

==The Mighty Boosh==
Fulcher has played many types of characters but is perhaps best known for playing dull-witted, comic goons. He is probably most famous for his portrayal of Bob Fossil in The Mighty Boosh stage, radio and television shows, as well as playing many other characters, including the List of minor characters from The Mighty Boosh#Ape of Death Ape of Death and List of recurring characters from The Mighty Boosh#Lester Corncrake Lester Corncrake. He is also the only writer to provide additional material for the TV series apart from the major writers Noel Fielding and Julian Barratt. Fulcher has a variety of running gags on The Mighty Boosh: he often plays very short characters, performing them on his knees, and when he plays various cockney characters he can be heard muttering, "Im a cockney, Im a cockney..." His Boosh characters often die horribly, being grated or otherwise murdered, and as this happens Fulcher will sometimes say, "A little to the left!" It was also in The Mighty Boosh that he met Matt Berry, who played Dixon Bainbridge. In the documentary A Journey Through Time and Space he was said to be the only person who plays a "watered down version of himself". Fulcher claims that after portraying Tommy Nooka people came up to him in the street and demanded that he do Tommy.

==Snuff Box==
Rich Fulcher was a star and major writer for the BBC Three sketch show Snuff Box, along with Matt Berry, whom he met on the set of The Mighty Boosh. Berry plays the High Executioner to the King of England and Fulcher his assistant. He also plays other minor characters in the series. Snuff Box was only aired once on BBC Three (Feb – April 2006) and was released on DVD in the UK in June 2008.

==Tiny Acts of Rebellion==
In 2009, Rich authored the book Tiny Acts of Rebellion published by Michael OMara Books Ltd in the UK (and in the US in 2010) and illustrated by Mr Bingo Mr. Bingo. He has made several publicity appearances in promotion of the book at book signings in Europe and the US, as well as on Episode 51 of the radio show/podcast Comedy Death-Ray Radio. Tiny Acts was also adapted into a stage show which sold out at the Edinburgh Fringe and its Soho Theatre run. It co-starred Arnab Chanda and was directed by [http://deansbomb.tumblr.com/ Harry Deansway]

==Filmography==
Fulcher is more well known in the UK than in his native country. In the US, Fulcher was one of the "undercover" comedians who posed as various absurd talk show guests in the 2004 Comedy Central series Crossballs. His other American claim to fame is that he is the London body double for the character Garth in Waynes World 2. In 1998 he starred in and wrote for the sketch show Unnatural Acts (TV series) Unnatural Acts for the Paramount Comedy Channel alongside his future Mighty Boosh co-stars Julian Barratt and Noel Fielding and also Seán Cullen and Rich Easter. Fulcher played a baker in AD/BC: A Rock Opera, where he collaborated with Matt Berry.  The pair then starred in their own comedy series, Snuff Box, on BBC Three. In addition to his acting and writing Fulcher is also a singer and dancer, and has employed these talents in various Boosh episodes and stage shows, on Snuff Box, and as tech correspondent/stand up comic Dane Rivers on the comedy videocast Goodnight Burbank. He was interviewed on the first episode of comedian Steve Agee Steve Agees podcast The John Show. He has also provided the voice over for an MBNA credit card advert. In 2007 he provided the vocals to the electro song "Uncle Kevin" by DeadDogInBlackBag.

On November 5, 2007 he starred in Golf War on E4 (channel) E4, alongside Season 1 Boosh regulars Simon Farnaby and Matt Berry.
He currently stars in ITVs mobile TV show The Gym as Dave Darblay, a life coach unable to recover from the loneliness of being left by his wife.

In 2008, he also appeared in an episode of Adult Swims Fat Guy Stuck in Internet entitled "Beast and Breakfast", as well as playing the character of Mr Brilliance in new BBC Three comedy, Trexx and Flipside. He also appeared as the priest at Sarah Silvermans wedding to her dog in a 2008 episode of The Sarah Silverman Program, and reprises the role in the later episode "Nightmayor".

It was announced on November 11, 2008 that MTV had commissioned a spin-off series of The Mighty Boosh, starring Rich Fulcher as Eleanor, the transvestite who appeared in the Mighty Boosh Series Three episode "Eels".
It is not clear if any other Mighty Boosh characters will appear in it. A 20-minute pilot episode has already been made, which can be viewed on several comedy websites currently{{Citation needed reason=What comedy websites is this available on? Is there confirmation on whether the series is airing? date=August 2017}} and is expected to air on MTV2 shortly (as will the series).{{When date=August 2017}} 

He appeared as a talent show judge in series 3 of the hit British TV drama Skins (UK TV series) Skins, and appeared on the final episode of the US TV series Monk (TV series) Monk.

In addition, Fulcher had a recurring role the Comedy Central show Jon Benjamin Has a Van as Edward Sheath, a consumer advocate bringing attention to the terrible things he does in the segment "Shame on Me".

He guest starred as a jaybird in the episode "Apple Thief" of Adventure Time. The episode aired on October 3, 2011.

He guest starred in the episode "Exes and Oh-Nos!" of the Adult Swim show NTSF:SD:SUV.

He presents the music show InPutOutPut
on Channel 4 which is currently{{when date=December 2012}} showing season 2.

Fulcher voiced one of the elves in Arthur Christmas on November 23, 2011.

On November 25, 2011, he guest starred in an episode of SpongeBob SquarePants titled "Way of the Sponge", playing Fuzzy Acorns.

He was recently {{when date=December 2012}} on Euros Most Shocking Moments and discussed his likes and dislikes about the competition.

On July 16, 2013, he appeared on Comedy Centrals Drunk History retelling the story of Abraham Lincoln during his time as a lawyer. He has since returned to the series on several occasions, portraying Porter Wagoner, Julius Waties Waring, William A. Clark, and Franklin Delano Roosevelt,  He is one of a very small number of actors to have appeared as both a historical reenactor and the inebriated storyteller.

On 2014-2015, he voiced Queen Entozoa/Sourdough and one of the worms in an episode of a Disney animated show Wander Over Yonder.

He also made an appearance on Regular Show in episode 16: "Butt Dial" as the Answering Machine, one of the Phone Guardians.

He also made an appearance on Rick and Morty in episode 9: "Something Ricked This Way Comes" as King Flippy-nips, ruler of Pluto.

On March 1, 2015, he guest starred in an episode of Bobs Burgers titled "The Gayle Tales", playing a character named Stacy. Later in 2015, Fulcher appeared in BBC Three comedy Top Coppers as Mayor Grady.

He guest starred on two episodes of Cartoon Networks The Amazing World of Gumball as Frankie Watterson, Richards estranged conman father: "The Signature" (from season four) and "The Outside" (from season 5).

He currently voices Watson in Animation Domination High-Def
s web-series, The Adventures of OG Sherlock Kush.

In 2017, Fulcher appeared in Curb Your Enthusiasm, playing the role of a restaurant manager in season 9, episode 3 - "A Disturbance in the Kitchen".

Fulcher appeared in the 2018 episode "Im Sick" on the Netflix series Love (TV series) Love, playing the character of Glen Michener, an actor who played the role of Michael Myers (Halloween) Michael Myers in Halloween (1978 film) Halloween.
