Richard Michael Mayall (7 March 1958 – 9 June 2014) was an English comedian, actor and writer. Mayall formed a close partnership with Ade Edmondson while they were students at Victoria University of Manchester Manchester University, and became a pioneer of alternative comedy in the 1980s.

Mayall starred in numerous cult classic sitcoms throughout his career, including The Young Ones (TV series) The Young Ones, The Comic Strip The Comic Strip Presents..., Blackadder, Filthy Rich &amp; Catflap, The New Statesman, and Bottom (TV series) Bottom. Mayall also starred in the comedy films Drop Dead Fred and Guest House Paradiso, and won a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance Primetime Emmy Award for his voice-over work in The Wind in the Willows (1995 film)#Sequel The Willows in Winter. His comedic style was described as energetic "post-punk".
Mayall died suddenly on 9 June 2014 at the age of 56. BBC Television director Danny Cohen (television executive) Danny Cohen praised him as a "truly brilliant" comedian with a unique stage presence, whose "fireball creativity" and approach to sitcom had inspired a generation of comedy stars.
==Early life==
The second of four children, Richard Michael Mayall was born on 7 March 1958 at 98 Pittmans Field in Harlow, Essex
to Gillian (née Harrild; born 1930) and John Mayall (1925–2011). He had an older brother, Anthony, and two younger sisters, Libby and Kate.
When Mayall was three years old, he and his parents—who taught drama—moved to Droitwich Spa, Worcestershire,
where he spent the rest of his childhood and performed in his parents plays.
After attending Kings School, Worcester, where he obtained a free scholarship and failed most of his O-levels and scraped through A-levels,
Mayall went to the Victoria University of Manchester University of Manchester in 1975 to study drama, where he met his future comedy partner Ade Edmondson.
There he also met Ben Elton, a fellow student, and Lise Mayer, with whom he later co-wrote The Young Ones (TV series) The Young Ones.
==Career==

===Young Ones and The Comic Strip===
Edmondson and Mayall gained their reputation at The Comedy Store, London The Comedy Store, from 1980.
Apart from performing in their double act, 20th Century Coyote, Mayall developed solo routines, using characters such as Kevin Turvey and a pompous anarchist poet named Rick.
This led to Edmondson and Mayall, along with Comedy Store Master of Ceremonies compere Alexei Sayle and other upcoming comedians, including Nigel Planer, Peter Richardson (actor) Peter Richardson, French and Saunders, Arnold Brown (comedian) Arnold Brown and Pete Richens, setting up their own comedy club called "The Comic Strip"
in the Raymond Revuebar, a strip club in Soho.
