Erika "Riki" Lindhome
(born March 5, 1979) is an American actress, comedian, and musician. She is best known for roles in television shows including Garfunkel and Oates (TV series) Garfunkel and Oates, Gilmore Girls, House (TV series) House, The Big Bang Theory, and United States of Tara, and for the comedy music duo Garfunkel and Oates, which she formed with Kate Micucci. She also hosts the The Nerdist Podcast Nerdist podcast Making It.
She currently stars alongside Natasha Leggero in the Comedy Central series Another Period.

==Early life==
Lindhome was born on March 5, 1979 in Coudersport, Pennsylvania,
and grew up in Portville, New York.
She is primarily of Swedes Swedish ancestry.
She studied at Syracuse University and was part of the sketch comedy group known as Syracuse Live. After graduating in 2000, she embarked on an acting career.

==Career==
{{moresources section date=April 2018}}
File:Garfunkel-Oates.jpg thumb left 250px Lindhome performing as Garfunkel and Oates with Kate Micucci in 2009
File:Riki Lindhome.jpg thumb right Lindhome in February 2010
After graduating from university, despite not having an Talent agent agent, Lindhome was able to land a small role on the sitcom Titus (TV series) Titus and a minor role in the season seven episode "Him" of the popular television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer (TV series) Buffy the Vampire Slayer. In 2003, Lindhome got her first big break, earning a spot in Tim Robbins The Actors Gang Actors Gang theater group and appearing in the play Embedded (play) Embedded. She was one of four actors from the play to then be cast in the Academy Awards Academy Award-winning film Million Dollar Baby, where she played Mardell Fitzgerald, the sister of the main character.

In 2005, Lindhome had a recurring role on Gilmore Girls as Juliet, a friend and classmate of Logan Huntzberger and then Rory Gilmore Rory. In 2006, she wrote, produced, and co-directed the award-winning short film Life is Short, starring herself, Alexis Bledel, Samm Levine, and Seth MacFarlane. She also appeared in the 2006 film Pulse (2006 film) Pulse and in 2007 was one of many public figures to appear in the music video for Nickelbacks "Rockstar (Nickelback song) Rockstar".

In 2008, Lindhome had a minor role in the film Changeling (film) Changeling, playing an examination nurse. She continued to guest star on several popular television series including The Big Bang Theory, Criminal Minds, and Pushing Daisies. In 2009, she starred in the feature film remake of the Wes Craven classic The Last House on the Left (2009 film) The Last House on the Left.
During the 2007 writers strike, Lindhome pursued more writing and directing opportunities.
She performs as "Garfunkel" in the comedy-folk duo Garfunkel and Oates,
with her friend and fellow songwriter Kate Micucci.
