Robert George "Bob" Schimmel (January 16, 1950 – September 3, 2010) was an American comedian who was known for his controversial blue comedy.
While the extremely profane nature of his act limited his commercial appeal, he had a reputation as a "comics comic" due to his relentless touring, comedy albums and frequent appearances on HBO and The Howard Stern Show. Schimmel is number 76 on the 2004 program Comedy Central Presents: 100 Greatest Stand-Ups Of All Time.
==Early life and career==
Schimmel was born in the Bronx, New York City, the son of Betty and Otto Schimmel, Jewish survivors of the Holocaust.
He was voted class clown during high school and was in the United States Air Force for one year during the Vietnam War.
A resident of Scottsdale, Arizona, his career began when, at the urging of his sister, he performed at a comedy clubs open-mic night. A club owner in Los Angeles offered to make him a regular, but when Schimmel moved there he found that the club had burned down.
Undaunted, and with some help from Rodney Dangerfield, who invited him to perform on his HBO Young Comedians Special, Schimmel began making a name for himself.
He wrote material for In Living Color and for comedians such as Yakov Smirnoff and Jimmie Walker.
Schimmel married his first wife, Vicki, in 1977, and they had four children together. Their son Derek died from cancer at the age of 11.
Schimmel later divorced and remarried, having two sons with his second wife, Melissa.

==Comedic style==
Schimmel cited Lenny Bruce as his all-time comedy hero.
Schimmel incorporated many aspects of his personal life into his act, even his cancer and the death of his son. In one signature bit, Schimmel joked about making obscene suggestions to a lady from the Make-a-Wish Foundation.
His act was described as raunchy and sexually explicit, which he claimed as the reason he never appeared on network television.
He said his inappropriate comments on Late Night with Conan OBrien and The Hollywood Squares caused him to be removed, though he later returned to OBriens show.
However, his edgy style made him a hit on The Howard Stern Show.

==Personal life==
As an adult, Schimmel suffered from cancer and had one of his testicles removed.
In 1998, Schimmel suffered a heart attack. In June 2000, he was diagnosed with non-Hodgkins lymphoma. His treatments included chemotherapy and required long stays in the hospital.
Schimmel was arrested in Calabasas, California on May 2, 2009 as a result of an alleged confrontation between himself and his wife Melissa. The district attorney eventually declined to press charges, citing insufficient evidence.
On May 8, 2009, Melissa Schimmel filed for divorce, citing irreconcilable differences.
During an interview on The Howard Stern Show on January 28, 2010, Schimmel announced that he developed cirrhosis as a result of a hepatitis C infection from a blood transfusion that he received while in the Air Force. His cirrhosis had progressed to the point that he was working to be added to the waiting list for a donated liver.
==Death==
On August 26, 2010 in Scottsdale, Arizona. Schimmel was a passenger in a car driven by his 19-year-old daughter Aliyah. After veering off the road to avoid hitting another vehicle, the car flipped onto its side and came to a stop in the shoulder of the Arizona State Route 101 Loop 101 freeway.
Schimmel was hospitalized at John C. Lincoln hospital (North Phoenix) in serious condition, while Aliyah was hospitalized in stable condition. Schimmels son Jacob, who was also in the vehicle at the time of accident, was uninjured. On September 3, 2010, Schimmel died of his injuries.
He is interred at the Paradise Memorial Gardens
in Scottsdale, Arizona.

==Works==
Albums{{citation needed date=June 2017}}
* Comes Clean, Warner Bros. Records (1996)
* If You Buy this CD, I Can Get this Car, Warner Bros. Records (1998)
* Unprotected, Warner Bros. Records (1999)
* The Early Years, Murder Inc. Records (2002)
* Reserection, Murder Inc. Records (2003)
Videos
* Unprotected, HBO (1999)
* Life Since Then, Image Entertainment (2009)
Book
*Cancer on Five Dollars a Day* (*chemo not included): How Humor Got Me Through the Toughest Journey of My Life. Da Capo Press (2008)
