Robert Patrick Webb (born 29 September 1972)
is an English comedian, actor and writer, and one half of the double act Mitchell and Webb, alongside David Mitchell (comedian) David Mitchell. The two starred in the Channel 4 sitcom Peep Show (TV series) Peep Show and the sketch comedy programme That Mitchell and Webb Look, for which they then performed a stage adaption, The Two Faces of Mitchell and Webb. A film, Magicians (2007 film) Magicians, was released in 2007. The duo also starred in the short-lived Ambassadors (TV series) Ambassadors. Webb headed the critically acclaimed sitcom The Smoking Room and was a performer in the sketch show Bruiser (TV series) Bruiser. He stars alongside Mitchell in the Channel 4 comedy-drama Back (TV series) Back (2017-).

Webb is also a regular comedy panelist, appearing in shows such as The Bubble (game show) The Bubble, Have I Got News for You Have I Got News For You, Never Mind the Buzzcocks Never Mind Never Mind the Buzzcocks The Buzzcocks, QI, Mastermind (TV series) Mastermind and Argumental. He has also hosted and narrated several programmes. His other sitcom appearances include Blessed (TV series) Blessed, The Bleak Old Shop of Stuff The Bleak Old Shop Of Stuff and Fresh Meat (TV series) Fresh Meat.

==Early life==
Born in Boston, Lincolnshire, Webb grew up in Woodhall Spa near Horncastle, Lincolnshire Horncastle. His parents divorced when he was aged five, with his mother remarrying a year or so later.
He has two older brothers
and a younger half-sister.
He was educated at Queen Elizabeths Grammar School, Horncastle Queen Elizabeths Grammar School in Horncastle.
Having grown up watching The Young Ones (TV series) The Young Ones and Blackadder, as well as working class tv shows Blind Date and Only Fools and Horses, he became interested in drama and poetry while in school and began writing parodies.
While Webb was in the lower sixth form preparing for his A-levels, his mother died of breast cancer,
and he moved in with his father and re-sat his A-levels.

At the age of 20, Webb attended Robinson College, Cambridge, where he studied English and became vice-president of the Footlights.
Webb and Mitchell met at an audition for a Footlights production of Cinderella in 1993.
==Career==

===Mitchell and Webb===
The two put together their first project, Innocent Millions Dead or Dying - A Wry Look at the Post-Apocalyptic Age (With Songs), in January 1995, a show about World War I.
Webb later described it as being "fucking terrible".
