Roseanne Cherrie Barr (born November 3, 1952) is an American actress, comedian, writer, and television producer. Barr began her career in stand-up comedy at clubs before gaining critical and popular acclaim in the television sitcom Roseanne (1988–1997; 2018). She won both an Emmy Award Emmy and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress for her work on the show.

Barr was born into a Jewish family living in Salt Lake City, Utah. She became a standup comedian in 1980. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, she began to emerge as a celebrity through her role in Roseanne and other public performances. Barr sparked controversy when performing "The Star-Spangled Banner" at a nationally aired baseball game on July 25, 1990. After singing the anthem in what many perceived to be a deliberately disrespectful manner, Barr grabbed her crotch and spat. This performance was met with condemnation from baseball fans and sportswriters, and was called "disgraceful" by then-President George H. W. Bush.
Barr has been active and outspoken on political issues. She won nearly 70,000 votes for president in the general election of 2012, as the presidential nominee of the Peace and Freedom Party.
After Donald Trump announced his candidacy for president in 2015, Kelly Weill of The Daily Beast wrote that Barr "veered right" in her politics.
After Roseanne was revived, Trump called her to congratulate her on her shows ratings and thank her for her support.
She has frequently defended her support of Trump, and has been criticized for her extensive use of personal attacks, conspiracy theories, and fake news.
<!--Please see Talk:Roseanne Barr the talk page discussion before revising this specific section of the lede in regards to the racist tweet.-->
Roseanne was revived in 2018 on American Broadcasting Company ABC; the show was abruptly canceled on May 29, after being renewed for another season, due to Barr making a controversial Twitter tweet, which many called "racist" and she later called a "bad joke".
==Early life==
Roseanne Barr was born on November 3, 1952, in Salt Lake City, Utah, to a Jewish family. She is the oldest of four children born to Helen (née Davis), a bookkeeping bookkeeper and cashier, and Jerome Hershel "Jerry" Barr,
who worked as a salesman.
Her fathers family were Jewish emigrants from Russia, and her maternal grandparents were Jewish emigrants from Austria-Hungary and Lithuania.
Her paternal grandfather changed his surname from "Borisofsky" to "Barr" upon entering the United States.
Her Jewish upbringing was influenced by her devoutly Orthodox Jewish maternal grandmother.
Barrs parents kept their Jewish heritage secret from their neighbors and were partially involved in Latter-day Saints The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Barr has stated, "Friday, Saturday, and Sunday morning I was a Jew; Sunday afternoon, Tuesday afternoon, and Wednesday afternoon we were Mormons."
When Barr was three years old, she got Bells palsy on the left side of her face. Barr said, "[so] my mother called in a rabbi to pray for me, but nothing happened. Then my mother got a Mormon preacher, he prayed, and I was miraculously cured". Years later, Barr learned that Bells palsy was usually temporary and that the Mormon preacher came "exactly at the right time".
At six years old, Barr discovered her first public stage by lecturing at LDS churches around Utah and was elected president of a Mormon youth group.
At 16, Barr was hit by a car; the incident left her with a traumatic brain injury.
Her behavior changed so radically that she was institutionalized for eight months at Utah State Hospital.
While institutionalized she had a baby, which she put up for adoption.
In 1970, when Barr was 18 years old, she moved out by informing her parents she was going to visit a friend in Colorado for two weeks, but never returned.
==Career==

===Stand-up comedian: 1980–1986===
While in Colorado, Barr did stand-up gigs in clubs in Denver and other Colorado towns. She later tried out at The Comedy Store in Los Angeles and went on to appear on The Tonight Show in 1985.
In 1986, she performed on a Rodney Dangerfield special and on Late Night with David Letterman and the following year had her own HBO special called The Roseanne Barr Show, which earned her an American Comedy Awards American Comedy Award for the funniest female performer in a television special.
Barr was offered the role of Peg Bundy in Married... with Children but turned it down.
In her routine she popularized the phrase, "domestic goddess", to refer to a homemaker or housewife. The success of her act led to her own series on American Broadcasting Company ABC, called Roseanne (TV series) Roseanne.

===Roseanne sitcom, film, books, and talk show: 1987–2004===
{{Main Roseanne}}
In 1987, The Cosby Show executive producers Carsey-Werner Productions Marcy Carsey and Tom Werner wanted to bring a "no-perks family comedy" to television. They hired Cosby writer Matt Williams (producer) Matt Williams to write a script about factory workers and signed Barr to play Roseanne Conner.
The show premiered on October 18, 1988, and was watched by 21.4 million households, making it the highest-rated debut of that season.
Barr became outraged when she watched the first episode of Roseanne and noticed that in the credits, Williams was listed as creator.
She told Tanner Stransky of Entertainment Weekly, "We built the show around my actual life and my kids. The domestic goddess, the whole thing".
In the same interview, Werner said, "I dont think Roseanne, to this day, understands that this is something legislated by the Writers Guild of America Writers Guild, and its part of what every show has to deal with. Theyre the final arbiters."
During the first season, Barr sought more creative control over the show, opposing Williams authority. Barr refused to say certain lines and eventually walked off set. She threatened to quit the show if Williams did not leave. ABC let Williams go after the thirteenth episode.
Barr gave Amy Sherman-Palladino and Joss Whedon their first writing jobs on Roseanne.
Roseanne ran for nine seasons from 1988 to 1997. Barr won an Emmy Award Emmy, a Golden Globe, a Nickelodeon Kids Choice Awards Kids Choice Award, and three American Comedy Awards for her part in the show. Barr had crafted a "fierce working-class domestic goddess" persona in the eight years preceding her sitcom and wanted to do a realistic show about a strong mother "who was not a victim of patriarchal consumerism".
For the final two seasons, Barr earned $40 million, making her the second-highest-paid woman in show business at the time, after Oprah Winfrey.
File:Roseanne Barr at the 1992 Emmy Awards-cropped.jpg thumb left Barr attending the 44th Primetime Emmy Awards 1992 Emmy Awards

Barbara Ehrenreich called Barr a working-class spokesperson representing "the hopeless underclass of the female sex: polyester-clad, overweight occupants of the slow track; fast-food waitresses, factory workers, housewives, members of the invisible pink-collar army; the despised, the jilted, the underpaid",
but a master of "the kind of class-militant populism that the Democrats, most of them anyway, never seem to get right".
Barr refuses to use the term "blue collar" because it masks the issue of class.
During Roseanne{{}}s final season, Barr was in negotiations between Carsey-Werner Productions and ABC executives to continue playing Roseanne Conner in a spin-off.
After failed discussions with ABC as well as CBS and Fox Broadcasting Company Fox, Carsey-Werner and Barr agreed not to continue the negotiations.
She released her autobiography in 1989, titled Roseanne—My Life As a Woman.
That same year, she made her film debut in She-Devil, playing a scorned housewife, Ruth. Film critic Roger Ebert gave her a positive review saying, "Barr could have made an easy, predictable and dumb comedy at any point in the last couple of years. Instead, she took her chances with an ambitious project – a real movie. It pays off, in that Barr demonstrates that there is a core of reality inside her TV persona, a core of identifiable human feelings like jealousy and pride, and they provide a sound foundation for her comic acting".
In 1991, she voiced the baby Julie in Look Whos Talking Too. She was nominated for a Golden Raspberry Award for Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Supporting Actress Worst Supporting Actress.
She appeared three times on Saturday Night Live from 1991 to 1994, co-hosting with then-husband Tom Arnold (actor) Tom Arnold in 1992.

In 1994, she released a second book, My Lives.
That same year, Barr became the first female comedian to host the MTV Video Music Awards on her own. She remained the only one to have done so until comedian Chelsea Handler hosted in 2010.
In 1997, she made guest appearances on 3rd Rock from the Sun and The Nanny.

In 1998, she portrayed the Wicked Witch of the West in a production of The Wizard of Oz (adaptations)#Stage adaptations The Wizard of Oz at Madison Square Garden.
That same year, Barr hosted her own talk show, The Roseanne Show, which ran for two years before it was canceled in 2000.

In the summer of 2003, she took on the dual role of hosting a cooking show called Domestic Goddess and starring in a reality show called The Real Roseanne Show about hosting a cooking show. Although 13 episodes were in production, a hysterectomy brought a premature end to both projects.
In 2004, she voiced Maggie, one of the main characters in the animated film Home on the Range (2004 film) Home on the Range.

===Return to stand-up, television guest appearances, and radio: 2005–2010===
In 2005, she returned to stand-up comedy with a world tour.
In February 2006, Barr performed her first-ever live dates in Europe as part of the Leicester Comedy Festival in Leicester, England. The shows took place at De Montfort Hall.
She released her first childrens DVD, Rockin with Roseanne: Calling All Kids, that month.

Barrs return to the stage culminated in an HBO Comedy Special Roseanne Barr: Blonde N Bitchin, which aired November 2006, on HBO. Two nights earlier, Barr had returned to primetime network TV with a guest spot on NBCs My Name Is Earl, playing a crazy trailer park manager.

In April 2007, Barr hosted season three of The Search for the Funniest Mom in America on Nick at Nite.
File:Roseanne barr.jpg thumb right Barr giving an interview in the 2010 documentary, I Am Comic

In March 2008, she headlined an act at the Sahara Hotel and Casino on the Las Vegas Strip.
From 2009 to 2010, she hosted a politically themed radio show on KPFK.
Since 2008, she and partner Johnny Argent have hosted a weekly radio show on Sundays, on KCAA in the Los Angeles area, called "The Roseanne and Johnny Show".
On March 23, 2009, it was announced that Barr would be returning to primetime with a new sitcom, wherein she would once again play the matriarch. Jim Vallely of Arrested Development (TV series) Arrested Development had been tapped to pen the series.
She later stated on her website that the project had been canceled.

On April 15, 2009, Barr made an appearance on Bravo (US TV channel) Bravos 2nd Annual A-List Awards in the opening scenes. She played Kathy Griffins fairy godmother, granting her wish to be on the A-List for one night only.

In February 2010, Barr headlined the inaugural Traverse City Comedy Arts Festival in a project of the Traverse City Film Festival, founded by filmmaker Michael Moore.
Moore developed the comedy fest with comedian Jeff Garlin.
In 2010, Barr appeared in Jordan Bradys documentary about stand-up comedy, I Am Comic.

===Reality television and Roseanne revival: 2011–2018===
In January 2011, Barr released her third book, Roseannearchy: Dispatches from the Nut Farm.
In 2011, she appeared in a Super Bowl XLV commercial for Snickers along with comedian Richard Lewis (comedian) Richard Lewis. It was the most popular ad, based on the number of TiVo users rewinding and watching it over.
On July 13, 2011, Roseannes Nuts, a reality television reality show featuring Barr, boyfriend Johnny Argent, and son Jake as they run a macadamia nut and livestock farm in Hawaii (island) Big Island, Hawaii was premiered on Lifetime (TV network) Lifetime but, was canceled in September of that year.
In August 2011, it was reported that Barr was working on a new sitcom with 20th Century Fox Television titled Downwardly Mobile.
Eric Gilliland was attached as co-creator, writer and executive producer; Gilliland was also a writer on Roseanne. In October 2011, NBC picked up the show but later dropped ir.
A pilot was filmed but initially ended up being shelved by the network.
Barr called her progressive politics the sole reason behind the pilots rejection. She said she was notified that the show would not be picked up due to its being labeled "too polarizing" by network executives.

Barr was Comedy Central Roast roasted by Comedy Central in August 2012.
After stating that he would not, Barrs former spouse Tom Arnold appeared on the roast.
In the summer of 2014 Barr joined Keenen Ivory Wayans and Russell Peters as a judge on Last Comic Standing on NBC.

On November 28, 2014, Barrs series, Momsters: When Moms Go Bad debuted on the Investigation Discovery cable network, a network that she says shes a "little obsessed with". Barr hosts the show as herself.

On April 28, 2017, it was reported that Barr, along with most of the original cast, were shopping an eight-episode revival of Roseanne, with its original cast and Barr serving as producer, to various networks and Netflix.
On May 16, 2017, ABC picked up the revival for mid-season 2018.
On March 27, 2018, the revived, Roseanne (season 10) 10th season of Roseanne premiered on ABC to high ratings.
On March 30, 2018, ABC renewed the series for an 11th season, with thirteen episodes.
On May 29, 2018, the series was canceled by ABC in the aftermath of a joke Barr made on Twitter earlier that day.
She and Tom Werner later came to an agreement on relinquishing her producers stake in a spin-off titled The Conners, which ABC ordered for the fall season soon after.
==Personal life==
In 1970, when she was 17, Barr had a child, Brandi Ann Brown, whom she placed for adoption; they were later reunited.
On February 4, 1974, Barr married Bill Pentland, a motel clerk she met while in Colorado. They had three children: Jessica, Jennifer, and Jake.
Pentland and Barr divorced on January 16, 1990.
Four days later, on January 20, 1990, Barr married fellow comedian Tom Arnold (actor) Tom Arnold and became known as Roseanne Arnold during the marriage. Barr had met Arnold in 1983 in Minneapolis, where he opened for her stand-up comedy act. In 1988, Barr brought Arnold onto her sitcom, Roseanne, as a writer.
Barr has a lesbian sister, Geraldine Barr,
and a gay brother, Ben Barr,
both of whom inspired her to introduce gay characters into her sitcom.
Barr has stated she supports gay marriage.
Geraldine was also Barrs manager while performing in comedy clubs and at the start of her sitcom. Geraldine claimed Arnold tried to dominate Barr "for his own reasons".
After being fired by Roseanne, Geraldine filed a $70.3 million breach of contract lawsuit in Superior Court of Los Angeles County on December 18, 1991. She said Barr promised her half the earnings from the Roseanne show for helping invent the "domestic goddess" character in 1981, serving as "writer, organizer, accountant, bookkeeper and confidante".
Since it was six months past the statute of limitations, the suit was thrown out.
In a 1991 interview with People (magazine) People, Barr described herself as an incest survivor, accusing both of her parents of physical abuse physical and sexual abuse,
claims which they and Geraldine publicly denied.
Melvin Belli, her parents lawyer, said they had passed a polygraph lie detector test "with flying colors".
Barr was part of an incest recovery group, something she said her parents knew about but for which they were "in denial".
On February 14, 2011, Barr and Geraldine appeared on The Oprah Winfrey Show where Barr admitted the word "incest" could have been the wrong word to use and should have waited until her therapy was over before revealing the "darkest time" in her life.
She told Oprah Winfrey, "I was in a very unhappy relationship and I was prescribed numerous psychiatric drugs ... to deal with the fact that I had some mental illness ... I totally lost touch with reality ... (and) I didnt know what the truth was ... I just wanted to drop a bomb on my family".
She added that not everything was "made up", saying, "Nobody accuses their parents of abusing them without justification".
Geraldine said they did not speak for twelve years, but had reconciled.
Barr filed for divorce from Tom Arnold on April 18, 1994 in the Superior Court of Los Angeles County, citing irreconcilable differences.
Their efforts to have children were unsuccessful.
On February 14, 1995, Barr married Ben Thomas, her one-time personal security guard, at MontBleu Resort Casino &amp; Spa Caesars Tahoe with a reception at Planet Hollywood. In November 1994, she became pregnant through in-vitro fertilization
and they had a son named Buck.
The couple stayed together until 2002.
In the mid-1990s, Barr had multiple cosmetic surgeries performed, such as a breast reduction plasty breast reduction, Abdominoplasty tummy tuck, and a Rhinoplasty nose job.
During the late 1990s she had gastric bypass surgery.
In 2002, Barr met Johnny Argent online after running a writing competition on her blog and began dating him in 2003, after a year of phone conversations.
They live on a {{convert 46 acre hectare}} macadamia macadamia nut farm located on the Hawaii (island) Big Island of Hawaii. Barr purchased the property in 2007 for $1.78 million.
Barr has studied Kabbalah at the Kabbalah Centre and frequently comments on the discipline.
In 2015, Barr revealed she had been diagnosed with both macular degeneration and glaucoma, and thus was gradually losing her eyesight and expected to eventually go blind; she was consuming medical marijuana to decrease her intraocular pressure that is a feature of these diseases.
Barr later revealed, that she was misdiagnosed and that her vision problem is really due to a Melanocytic nevus mole resting behind her eye, which can be corrected through surgery.
==Controversies==
===National anthem===
On July 25, 1990, Barr performed "The Star-Spangled Banner" off-key before a baseball game between the San Diego Padres and Cincinnati Reds at Jack Murphy Stadium.
She later said she was singing as loudly as possible to hear herself over the public-address system, so her rendition of the song sounded "screechy". Following her rendition, she mimicked the often-seen actions of players by spitting and grabbing her crotch as if adjusting a protective cup. Barr later said Padres had suggested she "bring humor to the song", but many criticized the episode, including President of the United States President George H. W. Bush, who called her rendition "disgraceful".
