Roseann ODonnell
<!--- No middle name as stated in biography --->
(born March 21, 1962)
is an American comedian, actress, author, and television personality.  She has been a magazine editor and continues to be a celebrity blogger, a LGBT social movements lesbian rights activist, a television producer, and a collaborative partner in the LGBT family vacation company, R Family Vacations.

ODonnell started her comedy career while still a teenager.  Her big break was on the talent show Star Search in 1984. After a TV sitcom and a series of movies introduced her to a larger national audience, she hosted The Rosie ODonnell Show from 1996 to 2002, which won multiple Emmy Awards.  During this time, she wrote her first memoir, Find Me (book) Find Me, and developed the nickname "Queen of Nice", as well as a reputation for philanthropic efforts.  She used the books $3 million advance to establish her For All Kids Foundation (United States law) foundation and promote other charity projects, encouraging celebrities on her show to take part. In 1997, ODonnell did the voice of Terk (Tarzan) Terk in the Disney animated film Tarzan (1999 film) Tarzan.

In 2002, two months before finishing her talk show run, ODonnell coming out came out, stating "Im a dyke (slang) dyke!" and saying that her primary reason was to bring attention to LGBT adoption in the United States gay adoption issues.  ODonnell is a foster care foster and adoption adoptive mother. She was named The Advocate{{s}} 2002 Person of the Year; in May 2003, she became a regular contributor to the magazine.

In 2006, ODonnell became a moderator on The View (U.S. TV series) The View. Her strong opinions resulted in some controversies, including an on-air dispute regarding the Presidency of George W. Bush Bush administrations policies with the Iraq War, resulting in a mutual agreement to cancel her contract. In 2007, ODonnell released her second memoir, Celebrity Detox, which focuses on her struggles with fame and her time at The View. From 2009 to 2011, she hosted Rosie Radio on Sirius XM Radio. In 2011, ODonnell signed on with the Oprah Winfrey Network (U.S. TV channel) OWN: Oprah Winfrey Network to return to daytime TV with The Rosie Show. On March 16, 2012, the network cancelled the show due to low ratings, and the last show aired on March 29, 2012. In July 2014, ODonnell was rehired to join The View as a co-host for the series eighteenth season. ODonnell announced in February 2015 her decision to depart the series again, this time citing personal reasons for her departure.

In November 2016, Showtime (TV network) Showtime announced that ODonnell had joined the cast of the comedy pilot SMILF, which premiered on November 5, 2017.

==Early life==
ODonnell, the third of five children, was born and raised in Commack, New York Commack, Long Island, New York (state) New York.
She is the daughter of homemaker Roseann Teresa (née Murtha) and Edward Joseph ODonnell, an electrical engineer who worked in the defense industry.
