John Henry Michael McManus
(born 21 January 1974), better known by the stage name Rove McManus, is an Australian triple Gold Logie award-winning television presenter, producer, comedian and media personality. He was the host of the comedy talk show Rove LA and was also the host of the eponymous variety show Rove (TV series) Rove. He is also the co-owner of the production company Roving Enterprises with partner Craig Campbell.
==Early life==
McManus was born in Perth, Western Australia, to John and Coralie McManus. McManus attended Orana Catholic Primary School before going through grades 8–12 at Corpus Christi College, Perth Corpus Christi College. He acquired the nickname "Rove" as a child, from his sister.
==Performing career==

===Live comedy===
McManus is a long established exponent of stand up comedy, touring nationally and also appearing internationally at major events such as the 2010 Just For Laughs Festival in Montreal and as the host of the 2013 International Comedy Gala.

In 2005 and 2008 McManus undertook live stand-up comedy shows, touring Australian capital cities as well as Wellington and Auckland in New Zealand. During the tour he returned to Melbourne each Tuesday to film Rove Live.

===Television===
McManuss first recorded television appearance was as a child, when he appeared in the ABC television series, Kaboodle as Marty, in an episode called Marty Makes A Move.
In 1997 McManus began hosting The Loft Live, which was produced by RMIT Universitys Student television station RMITV, on the community television station, Channel 31 (Australia) Channel 31, where according to Rove he was given a budget of $50 per week. It was there where he met his now long-time co-host, Peter Helliar.{{Citation needed date=May 2009}}  Rove then worked for Foxtel as a roving reporter on a show called In Fashion which was hosted by Hugh Jackman. He then took an offer from the Nine Network for ten late night episodes of his own variety show; Rove (TV series) Rove, in 1999, but Nine cancelled the series at the end of its run. In 2000, McManus was offered the opportunity to produce a new version of the Rove show for Network Ten. The resulting Rove (TV series) Rove Live was almost identical to Nines Rove. Rove Live became a flagship show for Network Ten, and it was also broadcast on TV3 (New Zealand) TV3 in New Zealand. The show followed a variety show format and showcased weekly celebrity guests; comedy acts; variety segments; local and international comedians; and band (music) live bands.

During the Australian federal election, 2004 2004 and Australian federal election, 2007 2007 federal elections, McManus unsuccessfully campaigned to have the Prime Minister of Australia Australian prime minister, John Howard, appear on his program. While Howard did not appear, then-opposition leaders Mark Latham appeared on the show in 2005 and Kevin Rudd in 2007. After being elected prime minister, Rudd appeared on the show again in 2008 and also on 28 June 2009.

When Bert Newton fell ill in early 2004, McManus was one of many guest presenters who hosted Newtons Good Morning Australia (1992–2005) Good Morning Australia program. McManus hosted the episodes on 24 April and 12 October 2004. The following year, McManus and Newton co-hosted a Roving Enterprises television special Ten Seriously 40, a look at the history of the Ten Network.

In 2004, McManus appeared in comedian John Safrans TV show John Safran vs God in a segment in which Safran convinced the controversial UK Muslim cleric Omar Bakri Muhammad to put a fatwa on McManus. The fatwa was later taken off when Omar Bakri found out that the pictures showing McManus mocking Islam were falsified.

In November 2006, after his wife Belinda Emmett died after fighting breast cancer for eight years, McManus took indefinite leave and Rove Live did not screen its last two planned episodes of the year. At the time there were unfounded rumours circulating in the industry that he might quit television for good. He returned, however, in the competitive Sunday 8.30 pm timeslot on 1 April 2007 with a major format overhaul, including renaming the show to simply Rove.
Rove scored its highest ever audience of 1.69 million viewers.
In September 2007, McManus made his debut as a game show host in the Australian version of the Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader? US game show Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader? (Australian game show) Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader?.
On 2 May 2007, 25 July 2007, and 29 October 2008, McManus appeared as a guest on NBCs The Tonight Show with Jay Leno and as a result now has a regular spot on the show.
In 2011 he hosted a segment called "Rove Across America" on The Tonight Show. Jay Leno and Ed McMahon also made a small pre-recorded appearance at the beginning of McManus shows in Los Angeles giving him tips for the nights show.

On 23 December 2008, McManus made his debut as host on American television as the host of an American Broadcasting Company special The List.
On the 2009 series finale of Rove shown on 15 November, following several weeks of rumours that the show was going to end, McManus confirmed live on the show that it would be ending with the 2009 finale. He said: "Its purely my decision. Its not one Ive made lightly or flippantly. The timing was right to stop, stand back and see what happens next."

In May 2011, McManus relocated to Los Angeles, California, and landed a hosting role on a new talk show, Rove LA. The show debuted on 19 September 2011, on FOX8, with catch-up airings on The Comedy Channel. The show was subsequently picked up for a two-year run.
In 2013, McManus featured as a subject in the Australian version of the series Who Do You Think You Are? (Australian TV series) Who Do You Think You Are?.

McManus has also appeared as a Round table guest on the E! Network late night talk show Chelsea Lately. He has also made intermittent appearances on TV3 (New Zealand) TV3s satirical Pulp Sport series, usually performing menial tasks for the hosts, "Bill and Ben".

In March 2014, it was announced that McManus will be the host of Riot (2014 TV series) Riot, the US version of the French light entertainment improv. show, Vendredi Tout est Permis (Friday Anything Goes). In the show two teams compete on a floor tilted at a 22.5 degree angle. It will screen on FOX and the executive producer is Steve Carell.
On 1 May 2014, McManus appeared on the American comedy show @midnight presented by Chris Hardwick on Comedy Central. He emerged as the winner being declared by Hardwick as having won the Internet and being the funniest person in the world for the next 23 and a half hours.
In April 2015, the Game Show Network in the United States debuted a new show hosted by McManus called Lie Detectors, in which audience members decide which of three comedians is telling the truth.

On 24 March 2017, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation announced that McManus would present a new panel show, Whovians (TV series) Whovians, to tie in with their forthcoming broadcast of the tenth series of Doctor Who; the show will air on ABC2 at 8:30pm straight after the premiere of each new episode on television.
In 2018, it was announced that McManus would be returning to Network Ten to host a new panel show, Show Me the Movie!.
McManus made a guest appearance on Hughesy, We Have a Problem.

===Radio===
In 1999, McManus was a regular host on Triple J radio and had a segment on the breakfast show (starring Wil Anderson and Adam Spencer) on Friday mornings, Know Your Millennium, a quiz show that looked into the past.

In 2000, he filled in on 2MMMs Andrew Denton Breakfast Show with co-host Amanda Keller and Mike Fitzpatrick (broadcaster) Mike Fitzpatrick.

In 2002, Austereo commissioned Roving Enterprises to create a weekly radio program starring McManus alongside regular Rove colleagues Peter Helliar and Corinne Grant, the show was originally called Saturday Morning Rove and was broadcast on Fox FM (Melbourne) Fox FM every Saturday from 10 am to midday, it was pre-recorded the day before to allow the performers to have a full weekend of other media commitments. In 2004, the program moved to Friday mornings allowing live phone callers and was re-titled Rove Live Radio, it was discontinued at the end of 2004.

In 2006, McManus and Helliar filled in for Merrick and Rosso while they were on holiday. In the first week of their three-week stint Meshel Laurie of Nova 106.9 co-hosted the show as well.

In October 2015, Southern Cross Austereo announced that McManus and Sam Frost (TV personality) Sam Frost will host breakfast on 2Day FM replacing the ailing The Dan &amp; Maz Show.
McManus is on a three-year contract beginning from the start of 2016, which includes McManus remuneration of shares valued at $350,000 every six months.
===Movie work===
McManus had a cameo voicing a crab in Pixars 2003 animated film, Finding Nemo. He appeared as himself on the New Zealand cartoon broTown and voices a number of characters in Cartoon Network Cartoon Networks Exchange Student Zero.

McManus voiced additional characters in Norm of the North.

McManus is currently working on the film "Cookies From Outer Space" with Yahoo Serious.
==Roving Enterprises==
{{Main Roving Enterprises}}

In 2000, McManus started the production company, Roving Enterprises and co-owns it with business partner Craig Campbell.
