Roy Castle, Order of the British Empire OBE (31 August 1932
– 2 September 1994
) was an English dancer, singer, comedian, actor, television presenter and musician. In addition to being an accomplished jazz trumpet player, he could play many other instruments. Following a versatile career as a performer on stage, television and film, he became best known to British television viewers as the long-running presenter of the childrens series Record Breakers.

==Early career==
Castle was born in Scholes, Holme Valley Scholes, near Holmfirth, West Riding of Yorkshire. The son of a railwayman, he was a tap dancer from an early age and trained at Nora Brays school of dance with Audrey Spencer who later turned out to have a big dance school,
and after leaving Holme Valley Grammar School (now Honley High School) he started his career as an entertainer in an amateur concert party. As a young performer in the 1950s, he lived in Cleveleys near Blackpool and appeared there at the local Queens Theatre, turning professional in 1953 as a stooge for Jimmy Clitheroe and Jimmy James (comedian) Jimmy James. By 1958 he was appearing at the Royal Variety Show. As a singer, he released one charting single in 1960, the Christmas song "Little White Berry".
==Television and film career==
In 1965, Castle starred with Peter Cushing in the film Dr. Who and the Daleks, the first of two cinematic spin-offs from the popular BBC television series. He played the role of Dr. Who (Dalek films) Dr. Whos first male assistant, List of companions in Doctor Who spin-offs#Ian Chesterton Ian Chesterton, and was cast to perform the role more comedically than it had been played by William Russell (actor) William Russell in the original series. He also appeared in Dr. Terrors House of Horrors as a jazz musician suffering a curse after copying Haitian Vodou voodoo tunes. He also appeared in Carry On Up the Khyber in 1968, and in the Musical film TV musical Pickwick (1969 film) Pickwick for the BBC in 1969. In the 90s he appeared again in Pickwick, touring the country, starring alongside Harry Secombe and the show was recorded again, which show Sir Harry had originally starred in the West End in 1963.  In 1973, Castle teamed up with the actor and comedian Ronnie Barker in the original one-off called "Another Fine Mess" (an episode from a series called Seven of One). Barker was one of Castles best friends, and paid tribute to their work together shortly after Castles death.

Between 1967 and 1968 Castle co-starred with Jimmy Edwards in the London West End run of the comedy farce show Big Bad Mouse when Eric Sykes had to withdraw because of illness. The show was resident at the Shaftesbury Theatre and, being loosely scripted, it offered both Edwards and Castle the chance to freely Ad lib ad-lib and generally break the fourth wall with the audience, Castle breaking into trumpet performances while Edwards walked into a front stall seat to read a newspaper, tap dancing and firing Table tennis ping-pong balls into the stalls.
He also once stood in for Bruce Forsyth hosting The Generation Game in 1975 while Forsyth was ill. He made many appearances on BBC TVs long running variety show The Good Old Days, making huge use of his multi instrumental and performing skills.

===Record Breakers===
In 1972, he first presented Record Breakers, a childrens show, and he remained host for over 20 years. He recorded the Theme music theme song for the show himself. While presenting the show he broke nine world records himself, including
* Fastest tap-dance 1,440 taps per minute – 24 taps per second, set on 14 January 1973, a record that has never been bettered.
* Longest Wing walking wing walk – 3 hours, 23 minutes.
* Playing the same tune on 43 different instruments in four minutes.

He was a host of the show up until a few months before his death in 1994, alongside Norris McWhirter Norris and Ross McWhirter, Fiona Kennedy and Cheryl Baker. From then on, hosting was taken over by Baker and former athlete Kriss Akabusi. It continued for 29 years until 2001, one of Britains longest-running shows.

==Singing career==
Between 1958 and 1969, Castle recorded three LP album LPs. One of these, Songs For A Rainy Day was recorded in 1966 for Columbia Records Columbia and was reissued in the UK on CD by EMI Gold, re-titled Isnt This A Lovely Day. The record features twelve songs with rain as the theme. British jazz players of the day Gordon Beck (piano), Jeff Clyne (bass), Leon Calvert (flugelhorn), Ike Isaacs (guitar), Ray Swinfield (flute) and Al Newman (saxophone) played on the record and it features jazz arrangements by Victor Graham covering a variety of styles such as big band, ("Pennies from Heaven (song) Pennies From Heaven", "Stormy Weather (song) Stormy Weather"), ballads ("February Brings The Rain", "Heres That Rainy Day", "Soon Its Gonna Rain") and bossa novas ("Everytime It Rains", "The Gentle Rain").{{citation needed date=March 2016}}

==Personal life==
Castle married dancer Fiona Dickson in 1963.
They had been introduced to each other by Eric Morecambe.
Both Castle and his wife were committed Christians and they regularly attended the Baptist church near their home. They had four children. Their youngest son, Ben Castle (born 1973), is a jazz saxophonist who has played with a wide range of artists, including Jamie Cullum, Carleen Anderson, Beth Rowley, Marillion and Radiohead, and performed on film soundtracks.

Castle was a association football football fan and supported Liverpool F.C. Liverpool. Less than six months before his death, he attended the Everton F.C. Liverpool-Everton Local derby derby match at Anfield on 14 March 1994 and stood on the Spion Kop terrace. He had also been in the crowd at Liverpools FA Cup final victory over Sunderland A.F.C. Sunderland in May 1992, shortly after he was first found to have cancer. At that time Ronnie Barker paid tribute to him, referring to their portrayal of characters that bore a strong resemblance to Laurel and Hardy in Another Fine Mess.

On 31 December 1992, Castle was awarded the OBE. He was also a recipient of the Carl Alan Award, an honour voted for by members of the professional dance industry.

==Illness and death==
Castle was diagnosed with lung cancer in March 1992, and was told that his chances of recovery were slim and that it was unlikely that he would live for more than six months. He underwent chemotherapy and radiotherapy and went into remission (medicine) remission later that year. A non-smoker, he blamed his illness on passive smoking during his years of playing the trumpet in smoky jazz clubs.
On 26 November 1993, Castle announced that his illness had returned, and once again underwent treatment in the hope of overcoming it. Several months later, he carried out the high-profile Tour of Hope to raise funds for the erection of the building that would become the Roy Castle Lung Cancer Foundation, which is the only British charity dedicated solely to defeating lung cancer. By this stage, however, his condition was deteriorating and recovery was looking highly unlikely.

During and shortly after Castles illness, many smoke-free restaurants and cafes were awarded the Roy Castle Clean Air Award to denote their adherence to a (then voluntary) smoke-free regime.

His final contribution to Record Breakers was aired at the end of the series ending in December 1993, although the programme continued until 2001.

He died in Buckinghamshire on 2 September 1994, two days after his 62nd birthday.

His widow Fiona worked with the charity after her husbands death, and campaigned for the British smoking ban which came into effect in Northern Ireland in 2004, Scotland in 2006 and England and Wales in 2007, banning smoking in virtually all enclosed Public space public places.

==Filmography==
{  class="wikitable"
 -
! Year
! Title
! Role
! Notes
 -
 1960   Sink the Bismarck!    Seaman on Prince of Wales    Uncredited
 -
 1965   Dr. Terrors House of Horrors    Biff Bailey    (segment "Voodoo")
 -
 1965   Dr. Who and the Daleks    Ian Chesterton   
 -
 1967   The Plank (1967 film) The Plank    Delivery Man with boxes (Wilfred Bavistock)   
 -
 1968   Carry On Up the Khyber    Capt. Keene   
 -
 1969   Pickwick (1969 film) Pickwick    Sam Weller   
 -
 1975   Legend of the Werewolf    Photographer   
 }
