Robert "Roy" Walker (born 31 July 1940) is a Northern Irish television personality and comedian, who worked for many years as both a television presenter and comedy actor. He is best known as the original host of the game show Catchphrase (UK game show) Catchphrase between 1986 and 1999, and as one of the stars of the comedy showcase The Comedians (1971 TV series) The Comedians.

==Early life==
Born in Belfast, as a teenager Walker performed in the Francis Longford Choir, then worked as a riveter in the Harland and Wolff shipyard. He was the Northern Ireland champion hammer thrower for three years, and represented his country internationally.
He spent a short time as a comedy partner of James Young (comedian) James Young{{Citation needed date=November 2009}} before serving seven years in the British Army.
Walker first started work aged 12. By the end of the 1960s, he was running a pawn shop whilst working in the evenings as the Master of Ceremonies compère at the Talk of the Town club in Belfast. The Troubles, a continuing threat of violence between political groups in Northern Ireland, was ongoing at this time. Though Walker was a Protestant and a Unionist, he was confronted by two men, who claimed he supported Irish Independence. They threatened him at gunpoint and gave him 24 hours notice to close the shop. Walker complied, and the shop was destroyed. He decided to leave Northern Ireland and work in Britain, touring as a professional comedian, in working mens clubs and cabaret.
{{quote ""Id been Mr Belfast but in Sunderland, Tyne and Wear Sunderland I had to wait by the phone at nine oclock hoping that some other poor comic had been paid off after his first act. That seven quid got me my digs." Walker talking about his move to England
}}

==Career==
In 1977, Walker won the ITV (TV network) ITV talent show New Faces, receiving the highest mark ever given to a comedian.
He was also a regular on the 1970s ITV stand-up comedy show The Comedians.
He appeared on the BBC show Seaside Special on 15 July 1978.
Also in 1978 he appeared in two episodes of Blackpool Bonanza.
In 1984 he appeared in an episode of the comedy series The Main Attraction.
{{rquote right A well-dressed gent with thick greying hair and a polite air, Walkers soft Irish voice, his lack of aggression, the composed expression hiding a gentle smile, his amazing pauses which defied interruption, somehow overawing and silencing hecklers… Bob Monkhouse summing up Walkers comedy
}}
Walker hosted the game show Catchphrase (UK game show) Catchphrase from 1986 to 1999. During this time he became one of the highest paid stars on television, earning £750,000 a year for the show {{Citation needed date=July 2017}}. Walker coined his own catchphrases for the show: "Say what you see", and "Its good, but its not right".  On 12 June 1994, he appeared on Surprise Surprise (TV series) Surprise Surprise.
Other television appearances in the 1990s included You Bet!, List of UK game shows#Panel games Gagtag, Light Lunch, Wipeout (UK game show) Wipeout (celebrity special) and TV Nightmares.
Walker appeared as himself in the first episode of Peter Kays Phoenix Nights Phoenix Nights on 14 January 2001. In 2002, he took part in the comedy game show Its Only TV...but I Like It Its Only TV... But I Like It and also appeared on Harry Hills TV Burp.
In 2004, he appeared in the third series of the reality television series Im Famous and Frightened! on Living (UK TV channel) Living. In 2005, Walker appeared as Monsignor in the Romance film romantic drama film The Jealous God, which was released on 9 September. On 4 March 2006, he was the Northern Ireland Regional Presenter in the UKs Eurovision Song Contest selection show Eurovision: Your Country Needs You Making Your Mind Up. On 12 August 2006, he appeared in an episode entitled The Comics of the documentary The Story of Light Entertainment. And on 14 October, he appeared on Saturday Night Takeaway Ant &amp; Decs Saturday Night Takeaway.
He appeared on The Paul OGrady Show in 2006 with Frank Carson as mystery guests, they were in disguise in the audience.{{Citation needed date=November 2009}}

On 19 February 2007, he was a guest on the Irish chat show, The Podge and Rodge Show on Radio Telefís Éireann (RTÉ). And on 30 November, he was a guest on the daytime chat show Loose Women.

In 2008, Walker was a guest on The Alan Titchmarsh Show. He presented a six-part comedy series for BBC Radio Ulster, Frank Carson The Way We Tell Em, as well as appearing on Ready Steady Cook on 5 June 2008. On 10 June, Walker appeared on Big Brothers Big Mouth as a secret special guest. Walker is an after dinner speaker and in June 2008 spoke and presented awards at the AIS{{Clarify date=November 2009}} Presidents Launch at the Dorchester Hotel in London. In 2008, he performed at the Edinburgh Comedy Festival in his own one-hour show entitled Goodbye Mr Chips debuting on 31 July, his 68th birthday.
He was also team captain on the first series of the BBC Radio 4 panel game Act Your Age (radio series) Act Your Age.

Walker has appeared on The Chris Moyles Show on BBC Radio 1, in pre-recorded segments called "Car Park Catchphrase" and "Beep Beep Busters", a spoof of Catchphrase.

Walker starred in the Churchill Insurance Television advertisement adverts, alongside model Megan Hall, seen at an Indian cuisine Indian restaurant with the Churchill Dog in 2009. On 26 May 2009, he appeared on the Britains Got Talent show Britains Got More Talent. Also in 2009, he appeared in a Come Dine with Me#Series 9 (2009) celebrity edition of the reality cookery show Come Dine with Me, which aired on 1 November – in which he came first. The other contestants were Most Haunted presenter Yvette Fielding, Natasha Hamilton of pop group Atomic Kitten and actor Bruce Jones (actor) Bruce Jones who played Les Battersby on Coronation Street.

On 27 May 2013, he appeared on the BBC Radio 4 panel show Just A Minute, and on 6 January 2015 he was Marcus Brigstockes guest on the same stations Ive Never Seen Star Wars (radio series) Ive Never Seen Star Wars.

In January and February 2016, Walker appeared in the three-part BBC series The Real Marigold Hotel, which followed a group of celebrity senior citizens including Miriam Margolyes and Wayne Sleep on a journey to India.
On February 27 2018, Walker appeared on T.V show "100 Years Younger In 21 Days".
==Personal life==
Walker lives in the Lancashire seaside resort of Lytham St Annes, which he announced once on Catchphrase (UK game show)
Catchphrase (UK game show) Catchphrase. He has three children by his late wife Jean, who died of cancer in 1989.
He was admitted to Clifton Hospital in early October 2011, following a suspected mini-stroke, and was discharged in good health the following day.{{cn date=May 2017}}

His son, Mark Walker, was the host of ITV game show Steal (game show) Steal for a singular series in early 1990.
His daughter, Josie Walker, is an Olivier Award nominated theatre actress.

==Cultural references==
A track on Belle &amp; Sebastians 2003 album Dear Catastrophe Waitress is named after Walker.
