Ruth Ann Buzzi (born July 24, 1936) is an American actress, comedian and singer. She has appeared onstage, as well as in films and television. She is best known for her performances on the comedy-variety show Rowan &amp; Martins Laugh-In from 1968–73, for which she won a 30th Golden Globe Awards#Best Supporting Actress 2 Golden Globe Award and received five Emmy Award Emmy nominations.

==Early life==
{{BLP sources section date=January 2017}}
Buzzi was born at Westerly Hospital, Westerly, Rhode Island, the daughter of Rena Pauline and Angelo Peter Buzzi, a nationally recognized stone sculptor.
She was raised in Stonington, Connecticut Wequetequock, Connecticut, in a rock house overlooking the ocean at Wequetequock Cove, where her father owned Buzzi Memorials, a business still operated by her older brother, Harold.
Her father was born in Arzo, Switzerland, in the Italian language Italian-speaking Cantons of Switzerland canton of Ticino. He carved the Pennsylvania Station (1910–1963) marble eagles at Pennsylvania Station (New York City) Penn Station in New York, the granite Leif Erikson memorial in Providence, Rhode Island, the animals seen in relief on the American Museum of Natural History in New York City, and made thousands of tombstones. He was asked to work on the carving of the Presidents on Mount Rushmore but declined, out of a Acrophobia fear of heights. Her mother was born in the United States to immigrants from northern Italy.

Buzzi attended Stonington High School, where she was head cheerleader. At 17, she enrolled at the Pasadena Playhouse for the Performing Arts and graduated with honors. She studied voice, dance, and acting, and took courses in cosmetology. {{citation needed date=February 2017}}

==Career==
{{BLP sources section date=January 2017}}

===Early successes===
Before graduation from college, Buzzi was already a working actress with a union card in musical and comedy revues.  Her first job in show business was at 19, traveling with singer Rudy Vallee in a live musical and comedy act during her summer break from college; it allowed her to graduate with a treasured union card with Actors Equity Association.  She moved to New York City after graduation and was hired immediately for a lead role in an off-Broadway musical revue, the first of 19 in which she performed across the East Coast.

In musical and comedy revues from Provincetown, Massachusetts, to the Catskill Mountains Catskills of New York, to off-Broadway, she worked alongside other young, talented performers just beginning their careers at the time, including Barbra Streisand, Joan Rivers, Dom DeLuise, Bernadette Peters and Carol Burnett. Buzzi performed in New York musical variety shows, and she made numerous television commercials, some of which won national awards including the Clio Awards Clio Award.

Her first national recognition on television came on The Garry Moore Show in 1964,
just after Carol Burnett was replaced by Dorothy Loudon on the series. Buzzi saw her first taste of national fame as "Shagundala the Silent", a bumbling magicians assistant to her comedy partner Dom DeLuise who played "Dominic the Great". Buzzi was a member of the regular repertory company on the CBS variety show The Entertainers (1964–65). In 1966–67, Buzzi appeared in Sweet Charity, with Fosses wife, Gwen Verdon, in the original cast. She had several small roles, one of them "the Singing Fairy".{{citation needed date=December 2017}}

===On Laugh-In and related work===
In the late 1960s, Ruth Buzzi appeared in every episode of The Steve Allen Show, a comedy-variety series starring Steve Allen. Her character parts in the Allen sketches led her to be cast for NBCs new show Rowan and Martins Laugh-In. She was the only featured player to appear in every episode of Laugh-In including the television pilot pilot for the show and the Laugh-In television special.

A versatile comedian and accomplished singer, Buzzi played everything from dowdy old women to tipsy drunks, from Southern belles to flashy prostitution hookers. Among her recurring characters on Laugh-In were Busy-Buzzi, a Hedda Hopper-type Hollywood gossip columnist; Doris Swizzler, a cocktail-lounge habituée who always got riotously smashed with husband Leonard (Dick Martin); and one of the Burbank Airlines Stewardesses, teaming with Debbie Reynolds as two totally inconsiderate flight attendants. Her most famous character was dowdy spinster Gladys Ormphby, clad in drab brown with her bun hairdo covered by a visible hairnet knotted in the middle of her forehead. Buzzi first used this look when she played Agnes Gooch in a school production of Auntie Mame. In most sketches, she used her lethal purse, with which she would flail away vigorously at anyone who incurred her wrath.

On Laugh-In, Gladys most often appeared as the unwilling object of the advances of Arte Johnsons "dirty old man" character Tyrone F. Horneigh. In a typical exchange, Tyrone accosts Gladys and asks, "Do you believe in the hereafter?"  "Of course I do!" Gladys retorts defensively. Delighted, Tyrone shoots back: "Then you know what Im here after!" NBC collectively called these two characters The Nitwits when they went to animation in the mid-1970s as part of the series Baggy Pants and the Nitwits. Buzzi and Johnson both voiced their respective roles in the cartoon.

Buzzi, as Gladys, was featured in most of the Dean Martin Roasts from the MGM Hotel in Las Vegas Valley Las Vegas. Memorable shows included her intense comedic dialogue, ranting about notable roastees including Muhammad Ali, Frank Sinatra, and Lucille Ball, to name a few. In each case, Gladys Ormphby pugnaciously attacked the honoree with her flailing purse to the screams and howls of the Las Vegas audience. Martin would also suffer Gladyss purse assaults for his remarks about her unappealing looks and poor romantic prospects. In one such exchange, Gladys accusingly questioned Martin about who had been chasing her around a hotel room in the wee hours; Martins response ("The exterminator!") earned him a beating as he broke up laughing along with the audience. Gladys then declared to the audience that, when Martin and other men looked at her, only one thing came to their minds. Martin, still laughing, could barely get out the answer: "Rabies!" This earned him an even fiercer beating from Gladys.{{citation needed date=December 2017}}

===Continued success on television===
{{BLP sources section date=February 2017}}
Buzzi was featured as a semi-regular on the sitcom That Girl as Marlo Thomass friend Pete Peterson.
