Sacha Noam Baron Cohen
(born 13 October 1971) is a British actor, comedian, screenwriter, and producer. Baron Cohen has created and portrayed fictional characters Ali G, Borat Sagdiyev, Brüno Gehard, and The Dictator (2012 film) Admiral General Aladeen. Like his idol Peter Sellers, he adopts a variety of accents and guises for his characters and rarely appears out of character.
In most of his routines, Baron Cohens characters interact with unsuspecting people, documentary style, who do not realise they are being set up for comic situations and self-revealing ridicule. His other work includes voicing List of Madagascar (franchise) characters#King Julien XIII King Julien XIII in the Madagascar (franchise) Madagascar film series (2005–2012) and appearing in Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007 film) Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007), Hugo (film) Hugo (2011) and Les Misérables (2012 film) Les Misérables (2012). He made a cameo as a BBC News Anchor in Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues (2013). In 2016, he played an English Football hooliganism in the United Kingdom football hooligan brother of an MI6 spy in the comedy film Grimsby (film) Grimsby, and co-starred as Time in the fantasy sequel Alice Through the Looking Glass (2016 film) Alice Through the Looking Glass. In 2018, Baron Cohen created and starred in Who Is America? for Showtime (TV network) Showtime, his first television project since Da Ali G Show.

Baron Cohen was named Best Newcomer at the 1999 British Comedy Awards for The 11 OClock Show, and since then, he has received two British Academy of Film and Television Arts BAFTA Awards for Da Ali G Show, several Emmy nominations, a nomination for an Academy Award for Writing Adapted Screenplay, and a Golden Globe for Golden Globe Award for Best Actor - Motion Picture Musical or Comedy Best Actor for his work in the feature film Borat. After the release of Borat, Baron Cohen stated that because the public had become too familiar with the characters, he would retire Borat and Ali G.
Similarly, after the release of Brüno, Baron Cohen stated he would also retire the title character.
At the 2012 British Comedy Awards, he received the Outstanding Achievement Award, accepting the award while reprising his Ali G character.
In 2013, he received the BAFTA Charlie Chaplin Britannia Awards Britannia Award for Excellence in Comedy.
==Early life==
Baron Cohen was born in west London.
His mother, Daniella Naomi (née Weiser), who worked as a movement instructor, was born in Israel.
His father, Gerald Baron Cohen (1932–2016), a clothing store owner, was born in London and raised in Wales.
Baron Cohen was raised Jewish.
He is fluent in Hebrew language Hebrew as well as his native English.
Baron Cohens fathers family were Ashkenazi Jews who moved to Pontypridd, Wales and London, England,
and his mothers family are History of the Jews in Germany German Jews.
