Sandy Baron (born Sanford Irving Beresofsky; May 5, 1936 – January 21, 2001) was an American comedian who performed on stage, in films, and on television.

==Early life==
Sanford Beresofsky was born in Brooklyn, New York, grew up in the Brownsville, Brooklyn Brownsville neighborhood and graduated from Thomas Jefferson High School (Brooklyn) Thomas Jefferson High School in East New York, Brooklyn East New York; and while he was a student at Brooklyn College, to which he received a scholarship, changed his name to Sandy Baron—taking his inspiration from the nearby Barrons Bookstore.
He started his career working in the Catskill Mountains resorts when they were synonymous with the "Borscht Belt" brand of Jewish humor on which Baron made his mark. He then moved on to the Compass Players Improv Comedy group in the late 1950s.

==Career==
He made his Broadway theatre Broadway debut in Tchin-Tchin in 1962. He also appeared in many other Broadway plays, hits as well as flops, including Autoro Ui, Generations and Lenny (Los Angeles production); replacing Cliff Gorman in the lead role of Lenny Bruce on Broadway.

In 1964, he established a reputation for himself as part of That Was The Week That Was and as the opening act for Steve Lawrence and Eydie Gorme at the Copacabana (nightclub) Copacabana in New York City. In the 1966-1967 season, Baron co-starred with Will Hutchins in the NBC sitcom Hey, Landlord about an apartment complex in Manhattan, New York Manhattan. In the 1970s, he made regular appearances on talk shows such as The Mike Douglas Show and The Merv Griffin Show, and multiple guest appearances on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson.  Sandy was also co-host of The Della Reese Show and hosted a number of television talk shows including A.M. New York and Mid-Morning LA. In addition, he was the host of the pilot for Hollywood Squares and often appeared as a celebrity contestant on this and other games shows.

He acted in many television programs, including a notable recurring role in Seinfeld as Jack Klompus, starred in Law &amp; Order, and as Grandpa (The Munsters) Grandpa in a 1996 TV-movie revival of The Munsters Scary Little Christmas.  His appearances in feature films included Sweet November (1968 film) Sweet November (1968), Targets (1968), If Its Tuesday, This Must Be Belgium (1969), The Out-of-Towners (1970 film) The Out-of-Towners (1970), Birdy (film) Birdy (1984), and others. Along with several of his contemporaries, Baron played himself in the opening scene of Woody Allens Broadway Danny Rose (1984); he also narrated this film.
Baron wrote music, too, starting out at the Brill Building in New York with 1961 songs such as "Flying Blue Angels" and Adam Wade (singer) Adam Wades "The Writing on The Wall", and later co-writing Lou Rawls hit "A Natural Man" with Bobby Hebb ("Sunny (Bobby Hebb song) Sunny") in 1971. Sandy wrote and recorded a number of comedy albums, including The Race Race and God Save the Queens co-written with Reverend James R. McGraw, editor/writer of Dick Gregorys books.

Throughout his career, he opened for Neil Diamond, The Fifth Dimension, Bobby Vinton, Anthony Newley, Diana Ross, and others.

==Personal life and death==
He was married to model/actress Geraldine Baron, writer/activist Mary Jo Webster Baron, and writer/screenwriter Stephanie Ericsson;
all ending in divorce. He had no children.
Baron died of emphysema in Van Nuys, California, at the age of 64.
