File:Whats Happening partial cast 1977.JPG thumb 270px From TVs Whats Happening!! (1977). Seated, L-R: Fred Berry, Ernest Lee Thomas, and Haywood Nelson (back to camera). Standing: Shirley Hemphill. 
Shirley Ann Hemphill (July 1, 1947 – December 10, 1999) was an American stand-up comedian and actress.

A native of Asheville, North Carolina, Hemphill moved to Los Angeles in the 1970s to pursue a career as a stand-up comedian. After working the Los Angeles comedy club circuit, her routine eventually attracted attention leading to her being cast in guest starring roles on television. In 1976, she landed the role of waitress Shirley Wilson on the sitcom Whats Happening!!  The series was a modest hit for American Broadcasting Company ABC, but production and cast problems caused ABC to cancel the series in 1979. The following year, Hemphill was cast in her own sitcom, One in a Million (US TV series) One in a Million. The series failed to attract an audience and was canceled in June 1980.

In 1985, Hemphill reprised her role as Shirley Wilson in the Broadcast syndication syndicated revival of Whats Happening!! titled Whats Happening Now!!  Like its predecessor, Whats Happening Now!! aired for three seasons. After the shows cancellation, Hemphill returned to stand-up comedy and also made occasional appearances in films and television.

In December 1999, Hemphill died of renal failure at her West Covina, California, home at the age of 52.

==Early life==
Hemphill was born in Asheville, North Carolina, to Richard and Mozella Hemphill. She had a brother, William. Hemphill attended Hill Street School and Stephens-Lee High School, and later won an athletics scholarship to Morristown College where she majored in physical education. Hemphill returned to Asheville two years later where she got a job in a factory manufacturing nylons.
An aspiring stand-up comedian, Hemphill sent a cassette tape of one of her comedy routines to Flip Wilson. Wilson was impressed by her routine and in turn, sent her a cassette recorder and a dozen roses. Wilson also invited Hemphill to visit the set of The Flip Wilson Show. After the visit, Hemphill returned to her job in Asheville but decided to pursue a career in comedy instead. She quit her job and traveled to Los Angeles by bus. Hemphill got a job waitressing during the day and performed at The Comedy Store at night.
==Career==
By 1976, Hemphills stand-up routine started to get noticed and caught the attention of casting agent Joan Murray.
Murray cast Hemphill in guest roles on Good Times which led to another guest starring role on Alls Fair. After seeing her performance on Good Times, Norman Lear offered Hemphill her own Spin-off (media) spin-off series but she turned it down. Instead, she auditioned and won the role of waitress Shirley Wilson on the American Broadcasting Company ABC sitcom Whats Happening!!.
Loosely based on Eric Montes film Cooley High, the series follows the adventures of three teenaged boys: Raj (Ernest Lee Thomas Ernest Thomas), Rerun (Fred Berry), and Dwayne (Haywood Nelson). Hemphills character worked at Robs Place, the restaurant the boys frequented. The series was a modest hit for ABC but was beset with behind the scene problems. In the series second season, Fred Berry and Ernest Thomas staged a walkout over their dressing room conditions which they claimed were unsuitable.
During the series third season, Fred Berry demanded more money and reportedly convinced Ernest Thomas and Haywood Nelson to join him in a strike. Producers opted to cancel the series instead of increasing the actors salaries.
Following the cancellation of Whats Happening, Hemphill auditioned for the role of the cook on Archie Bunkers Place, but lost out to Anne Meara. The day after losing the role, Hemphill was offered the starring role in her own sitcom One in a Million (US TV series) One in a Million.
On the series, she portrayed Shirley Simmons, a taxi driver who inherited a huge corporation and fortune from one of her customers.
The series debuted on ABC on January 8, 1980, but failed to attract a sufficient audience. ABC canceled the series in June 1980.
Afterward, Hemphill would spend most of the early 1980s working in nightclubs around the country and doing the occasional guest appearance on TV shows, including The Love Boat and Trapper John, M.D..  In 1985, she was invited to co-star on the revival of Whats Happening!! entitled Whats Happening Now!!, which aired in Broadcast syndication syndication from 1985 to 1988.
After Whats Happening Now!! ended its three-year run, she again worked the nightclub scene and doing the occasional acting gig on a number of 90s comedy sitcoms, including Martin (TV series) Martin and The Wayans Bros..
In 1993, she appeared in her first movie, CB4, starring Chris Rock. Two years later she co-starred in her second movie, Shoot the Moon, starring Whitney Anderson.

Throughout her career, Hemphill performed her stand-up routine on a number of popular TV shows including The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson, A&amp;E Network A&amp;Es An Evening at the Improv, Black Entertainment Television BETs Black Comedy Showcase and Black Comedy Tonight. She was also a regular at The Laugh Factory comedy club in Los Angeles.
A year before her death, Hemphill appeared in an episode of The Jenny Jones Show in a Whats Happening!! reunion show; actors Ernest Lee Thomas Ernest Thomas and Haywood Nelson also appeared.

==Death==
On December 10, 1999, Hemphill was found dead at her home in West Covina, California. Her body was discovered by a gardener who looked through a window and saw her lying on her bedroom floor. An autopsy determined that Hemphill died of renal failure.
Hemphill was cremated.

==Filmography==
{  class="wikitable sortable"
 -
! Year
! Title
! Role
! class="unsortable"   Notes
 -
  1976
  Alls Fair
  Big O
  Episode: "The Gang Leader"
 -
  1976
  Good Times 
  Rozzie
  Episode: "Rich Is Better Than Poor... Maybe"
 -
  1977
  The Richard Pryor Special?
  Pushy Fan from Tour Group 
  Television special
 -
  1976–1979
  Whats Happening!!
  Shirley Wilson
  60 episodes
 -
  1980
  One in a Million (US TV series) One in a Million
  Shirley Simmons 
  13 episodes
 -
  1982
  The Love Boat
  Charlene Grover
  Episode: "Isaac Gets Physical/She Brought Her Mother Along/Cold Feet"
 -
  1983
  Trapper John, M.D.
  Lacy
  Episode: "Fat Chance"
 -
  1984
  Pryors Place
 
  Episode: "Sax Education"
 -
  1985–1988
  Whats Happening Now!!
  Shirley Wilson
  66 episodes
 -
  1993
  CB4 
  976-Sexy 
 
 -
  1993
  The Sinbad Show
  Mamie
  Episode: "I Coulda Been the Man"
 -
  1994
  Martin (TV series) Martin 
  Sister Claus
  Episode: "Go Tell It on the Martin"
 -
  1996
  Shoot the Moon
  Lula Jones, PhD
 
 -
  1996
  The Wayans Bros.
  Coco
  Episode: "Hearts and Flowers
 -
  1999
  Lincs 
  
  Episode: "Speaking in Tongues"
 }
