Stephen John Fry (born 24 August 1957) is an English comedian, actor, writer, presenter, and activist. With Hugh Laurie, he is half of the comic double act Fry and Laurie, who starred in A Bit of Fry &amp; Laurie and Jeeves and Wooster.

Frys acting roles include a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Drama Golden Globe Award–nominated lead performance in the film Wilde (film) Wilde, Melchett (Blackadder) Melchett in the BBC television series Blackadder, the title character in the television series Kingdom (2007 TV series) Kingdom, a recurring guest role as Dr Gordon Wyatt on the crime series Bones (TV series) Bones, and as Gordon Deitrich in the dystopian thriller V for Vendetta (film) V for Vendetta. He has also written and presented several documentary series, including the Emmy Award–winning Stephen Fry: The Secret Life of the Manic Depressive, which saw him explore his bipolar disorder, and the travel series Stephen Fry in America. He was also the long-time host of the BBC television quiz show QI, with his tenure lasting from 2003 to 2016.

Besides working in television, Fry has contributed columns and articles for newspapers and magazines and written four novels and three volumes of autobiography, Moab Is My Washpot, The Fry Chronicles: An Autobiography The Fry Chronicles, and More Fool Me (memoir) More Fool Me. He also appears frequently on BBC Radio 4, starring in the comedy series Absolute Power (comedy) Absolute Power, being a frequent guest on panel games such as Just a Minute, and acting as chairman during one series of Im Sorry I Havent a Clue, where he was one of a trio of possible hosts who were tried out to succeed the late Humphrey Lyttelton, Jack Dee getting the post permanently.

Fry is also known for his voice-overs, reading all seven of the Harry Potter novels for the UK audiobook recordings, narrating the LittleBigPlanet and Birds of Steel series of video games, as well as an animated series of explanations of the laws of cricket,
and a series of animations about secular humanism Humanism for Humanists UK.
He has also filmed commercials, including an advertisement where he explains the essence of British culture to foreigners arriving at Londons Heathrow Airport.
==Early life and education==

Fry was born in Hampstead, London on 24 August 1957
to Marianne Eve Fry (née Newman) and Alan John Fry, a British physicist and inventor.
Frys father is English, and his paternal grandmother had roots in Kent and Cheshire.
The Fry family originates in Dorset, at Shillingstone and Blandford; in the early 1800s, Samuel Fry (second son of James Fry, of Shillingstone and Blandford) settled in Surrey, with his descendants residing in Middlesex.
File:Stephen Fry at Norcat (cropped).jpg thumb upright Fry at rehearsals for student production of A Midsummer Nights Dream at Norfolk College of Arts and Technology, 1975
Frys mother is British Jews Jewish, but he was not brought up in a religious family.
His maternal grandparents, Martin and Rosa Neumann,
