Stephen James Merchant (born 24 November 1974) is an English writer, director, radio presenter, comedian, and actor.

Merchant is best known for his collaborations with Ricky Gervais and Karl Pilkington, as the co-writer and co-director of the popular British sitcom The Office (UK TV series) The Office (2001–2003), co-writer and co-star of Extras (TV series) Extras (2005–2007) and co-host of The Ricky Gervais Show in its radio, podcast, audiobook and television formats; the radio version won a bronze Sony Award. He is also known for his voice role as Wheatley (Portal) Wheatley in the 2011 video game Portal 2.

Merchant appeared as himself in the BBC series Lifes Too Short (TV series) Lifes Too Short (2011–2013), which he co-wrote and co-directed. He also voiced the computer program ConRad on The Simpsons in the 2016 episode "The Girl Code", co-developed the Sky1 travel series An Idiot Abroad (2010–2011) and performs as a stand-up comedian. He starred in his first play, Richard Beans The Mentalists (play) The Mentalists, at Londons Wyndhams Theatre from July to August 2015. His varied endeavors have earned him three BAFTA Awards, four British Comedy Awards and a Primetime Emmy Award.

Merchant had his first dramatic role in a film when he was cast as Caliban (Marvel Comics) Caliban in the superhero film Logan (2017 film) Logan (2017).

==Early life==
Merchant was born in Hanham, County of Avon Avon, the son of nursery nurse Jane Elaine (née Hibbs) and insurance representative Ronald John Merchant.
He attended Hanham High School
and later the University of Warwick in Coventry from 1993 to 1996, where he received a British undergraduate degree classification#Upper second-class honours 2:1 Bachelor of Arts degree in Film and Literature.
Merchant was a former film reviewer on the student radio station Radio Warwick, where he began his broadcasting career.
{{quote The man behind the funniest show on W963, The Steve Show, highlights of which included an inspired take-off of the IRN news ("we spoke to Gerry Adams..."), an advert for Coventry Library ("Coventry Library makes no claims to be infinite"), attempting to give away an Aerosmith video to people on the toilet in Rootes Accommodation Rootes [hall of residence], telephoning the library bridge security post to ask if they had seen a lost ball, as well as a series of snippets entitled At Home with Rosemary West Rose and Fred West. He once suckled milk from a cows udder. This show stood out, as it was actually genuinely good. Its only a matter of time before Steve and his posse follow in the footsteps of Newman and Baddiel.   Radio Warwick Yearbook 1995/1996}}

Members of Merchants "posse" included film critic James King (film critic) James King, Dan Warren, Neil the Maskell, and Geraint the Welshman. Recently, a number of tapes of The Steve Show have been rediscovered and are being distributed on various Merchant fan sites.
==Career==
===Pre–2001===
Merchant began his career performing stand-up comedy at Bristols Comedy Box, where, he recalls, "The first week I did really well. The second week I died on my arse. I realised that stand-up was not that easy after all."
He also appeared as a contestant on a 1997 episode of the TV game show Blockbusters (UK game show) Blockbusters
and worked for a short time as a DJ for Radio Caroline.
Merchant met Ricky Gervais for the first time in 1997, when Gervais (then in the position of "Head of Speech" at the London radio station XFM London) hired Merchant as his assistant.
(Gervais said later that he had called Merchant for an interview simply because it was the first Curriculum vitae CV handed to him.) Merchant and Gervais hosted a Saturday afternoon radio show together from January through to August 1998, when both of them left XFM as it was bought by the Capital Radio Group. In the same year, Merchant was a finalist at the Daily Telegraph Open Mic Awards.
Merchant worked for seven years at XFM 104.9. The Saturday show never had a large audience; Gervais says "Its a tin pot radio station... Its not even the biggest radio station in the building." He created the features Hip Hop Hooray, Make Ricky Gervais Laugh and Song for the Ladies. After leaving XFM, Merchant began a production course at the BBC. As part of his coursework, he enlisted Gervais to perform in a 30-minute short film, "Seedy Boss," which became the earliest inspiration for their sitcom The Office (UK TV series) The Office.
They collaborated on a sitcom pilot called Golden Years featuring a manager suffering a mid-life crisis; the pilot aired on Channel 4s Comedy Lab series in September 1998,
but failed to find further success.

===2001–2003 (The Office and return to XFM)===
In mid-2001, BBC Two aired the first series of The Office, co-written and co-directed by Merchant and Gervais and starring the latter as paper sales office manager David Brent; the show initially received low ratings. Beginning in September 2001, Merchant and Gervais returned to XFM as co-hosts of The Ricky Gervais Show, another Saturday afternoon programme, which led to their fruitful relationship with producer Karl Pilkington.
