Stephen Glenn Martin (born August 14, 1945) is an American actor, comedian, writer, producer, playwright, author, and musician. Martin came to public notice in the 1960s as a writer for The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour, and later as a frequent guest on The Tonight Show. In the 1970s, Martin performed his offbeat, surreal humor absurdist comedy routines before packed houses on national tours. Since the 1980s, having branched away from comedy, Martin has become a successful actor, as well as an author, playwright, pianist, and banjo player, eventually earning him an Emmy, Grammy, and American Comedy Awards American Comedy awards, among other honors.

In 2004, Comedy Central
ranked Martin at sixth place in a list of the 100 greatest stand-up comics. He was awarded an Honorary Academy Award at the Academys 5th Annual Governors Awards in 2013.
While he has played banjo since an early age, and included music in his comedy routines from the beginning of his professional career, he has increasingly dedicated his career to music since the 2000s, acting less and spending much of his professional life playing banjo, recording, and touring with various bluegrass acts, including Earl Scruggs, with whom he won a Grammy for Best Country Instrumental Performance in 2002. He released his first solo music album, The Crow: New Songs for the 5-String Banjo, in 2009, for which he won the Grammy Award for Best Bluegrass Album.

==Early life==
File:Steve Martin HS Yearbook.jpeg thumb Steve Martin as a senior in high school, 1963
Martin was born on August 14, 1945,
in Waco, Texas,
the son of Mary Lee (née Stewart; 1913–2002) and Glenn Vernon Martin (1914–1997), a real estate salesman and aspiring actor.
Martin was raised in Inglewood, California with brother Fred and sister Melinda Martin, and then later in Garden Grove, California, in a Baptist family.
Martin was a cheerleader of Garden Grove High School.
One of his earliest memories is of seeing his father, as an extra, serving drinks onstage at the Call Board Theatre on Melrose Place. During World War II, in the United Kingdom, Martins father had appeared in a production of Our Town with Raymond Massey. Expressing his affection through gifts, like cars and bikes, Martins father was stern, and not emotionally open to his son.
He was proud but critical, with Martin later recalling that in his teens his feelings for his father were mostly ones of hatred.
Martins first job was at Disneyland, selling guidebooks on weekends and full-time during the schools summer break. That lasted for three years (1955–1958). During his free time, he frequented the Main Street, U.S.A.#Shopping Main Street Magic shop, where tricks were demonstrated to potential customers.
While working at Disneyland, he was captured in the background of the home movie that was made into the short-subject film Disneyland Dream, coincidentally becoming his first film appearance.  By 1960, he had mastered several of the tricks and illusions and took a paying job at the Magic shop in Fantasyland in August. There he perfected his talents for magic, juggling, and creating balloon animals in the manner of mentor Wally Boag,
frequently performing for tips.
In his authorized biography, close friend Morris Walker suggests that Martin could "be described most accurately as an agnostic [...] he rarely went to church and was never involved in organized religion of his own volition".
===Comedy===
After high school graduation, Martin attended Santa Ana College, taking classes in drama and English poetry. In his free time, he teamed up with friend and Garden Grove High School classmate Kathy Westmoreland to participate in comedies and other productions at the Bird Cage Theatre. He joined a comedy troupe at Knotts Berry Farm.
Later, he met budding actress Stormie Omartian Stormie Sherk, and they developed comedy routines and became romantically involved. Sherks influence caused Martin to apply to the California State University, Long Beach, for enrollment with a major in philosophy.
Sherk enrolled at UCLA, about an hours drive north, and the distance eventually caused them to lead separate lives.
Inspired by his philosophy classes, Martin considered becoming a professor instead of an actor-comedian. His time at college changed his life. {{cquote It changed what I believe and what I think about everything. I majored in philosophy. Something about Non sequitur (absurdism) non-sequiturs appealed to me. In philosophy, I started studying logic, and they were talking about Causality cause and effect, and you start to realize, Hey, there is no cause and effect! There is no logic! There is no anything! Then it gets real easy to write this stuff because all you have to do is twist everything hard—you twist the climax (narrative) punch line, you twist the Non sequitur (absurdism) non-sequitur so hard away from the things that set it up.
}} Martin recalls reading a treatise on comedy that led him to think: {{cquote What if there were no punch lines? What if there were no indicators? What if I created tension and never released it? What if I headed for a climax, but all I delivered was an anticlimax? What would the audience do with all that tension? Theoretically, it would have to come out sometime. But if I kept denying them the formality of a punch line, the audience would eventually pick their own place to laugh, essentially out of desperation.
}} Martin periodically spoofed his philosophy studies in his 1970s stand-up act, comparing philosophy with studying geology. {{cquote If youre studying geology, which is all facts, as soon as you get out of school you forget it all, but philosophy you remember just enough to screw you up for the rest of your life.
}}

In 1967, Martin transferred to UCLA and switched his major to theater. While attending college, he appeared in an episode of The Dating Game. Martin began working local clubs at night, to mixed notices, and at twenty-one, he dropped out of college.
==Career==

===Early career: stand-up===

In 1967, his former girlfriend Nina Goldblatt, a dancer on The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour, helped Martin land a writing job with the show by submitting his work to head writer Mason Williams.
Williams initially paid Martin out of his own pocket. Along with the other writers for the show, Martin won an Emmy Award
in 1969, aged 23.
He also wrote for John Denver (a neighbor of his in Aspen, Colorado now, at one point), The Glen Campbell Goodtime Hour, and The Sonny and Cher Comedy Hour. Martins first TV appearance was on The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour in 1968. He says: {{cquote [I] appeared on The Virginia Graham Show, circa 1970. I looked grotesque. I had a hairdo like a helmet, which I blow-dried to a puffy bouffant, for reasons I no longer understand. I wore a frock coat and a silk shirt, and my delivery was mannered, slow and self-aware. I had absolutely no authority. After reviewing the show, I was depressed for a week.
}} During these years his roommates included comedian Gary Mule Deer and singer/guitarist Michael Johnson (singer) Michael Johnson.
Martin opened for groups such as The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band (who returned the favor by appearing in his 1980 television special All Commercials), The Carpenters, and Toto (band) Toto. He appeared at San Franciscos The Boarding House (nightclub) The Boarding House, among other venues. He continued to write, earning an Emmy nomination for his work on Dick Van Dyke Van Dyke and Company in 1976.
File:Steve Martin 2.jpg left thumb upright Steve Martin, 1976
In the mid-1970s, Martin made frequent appearances as a stand-up comedian on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson,
and on  The Gong Show, HBOs On Location (TV series) On Location, The Muppet Show,
and NBCs Saturday Night Live (SNL). SNL{{s}} audience jumped by a million viewers when he made guest appearances, and he was one of the show’s most successful hosts.
Martin appeared on 27 Saturday Night Live shows and he guest-hosted 15 times, bested only in number of presentations by host Alec Baldwin (who has hosted 17 times {{as of 2017 February lc=y}}). On the show, Martin popularized the air quotes gesture, which uses four fingers to make double quote marks in the air.
While on the show Martin became close with several of the cast members, including Gilda Radner. Radner died of ovarian cancer on May 20, 1989; a visibly shaken Martin hosted SNL that night and featured footage of himself and Radner together in a 1978 sketch.

In the 1970s, his TV appearances led to the release of comedy albums that went Music recording sales certification platinum.
The track "Excuse Me" on his first album, Lets Get Small (1977), helped establish a national catch phrase.
His next album, A Wild and Crazy Guy (1978), was an even bigger success, reaching the No. 2 spot on the U.S. sales chart, selling over a million copies. "Just a wild and crazy guy" became another of Martins known catch phrases.
The album featured a character based on a series of Saturday Night Live sketches where Martin and Dan Aykroyd played the Festrunk Brothers; Yortuk and Georgi (respectively) were bumbling Czechoslovak would-be playboys. The album ends with the song "King Tut (song) King Tut", sung and written by Martin and backed by the "Toot Uncommons", members of the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band. It was later released as a single, reaching No. 17 on the U.S. charts in 1978 and selling over a million copies.
The song came out during the Tutankhamun King Tut craze that accompanied the popular traveling exhibit of the Egyptian kings tomb artifacts. Both albums won Grammys for Best Comedy Recording in 1977 and 1978, respectively. Martin performed "King Tut" on the edition of April 22, 1978, of SNL.

Decades later, in 2012, The A.V. Club described Martins unique style and its impact on audiences:
{{cquote [Martin was] both a consummate entertainer and a glib, knowing parody of a consummate entertainer. He was at once a hammy populist with an uncanny, unprecedented feel for the tastes of a mass audience and a sly intellectual whose goofy shtick cunningly deconstructed stand-up comedy.
}}

On his comedy albums, Martins stand-up is self-referential and sometimes self-mocking. It mixes philosophical riffs with sudden spurts of "happy feet", banjo playing with balloon depictions of concepts like venereal disease, and the "controversial" kitten juggling (he is a master juggler; the "kittens" were stuffed animals). His style is off-kilter and ironic and sometimes pokes fun at stand-up comedy traditions, such as Martin opening his act (from A Wild and Crazy Guy) by saying: {{cquote I think theres nothing better for a person to come up and do the same thing over and over for two weeks. This is what I enjoy, so Im going to do the same thing over and over and over [...] Im going to do the same joke over and over in the same show, itll be like a new thing.}}  Or: "Hello, Im Steve Martin, and Ill be out here in a minute."
In one comedy routine, used on the Comedy Is Not Pretty! album Martin claimed that his real name was "Gern Blanston". The riff took on a life of its own. There is a Gern Blanston website, and for a time a rock band took the moniker as their name.
With this kind of outstanding success, Martins show soon required full sized stadiums for the audiences he was drawing. Concerned about his visibility in venues on such a scale, Martin began to wear a distinctive three piece suit three piece white suit that became a trademark for his act.
Martin stopped doing stand-up comedy in 1981 to concentrate on movies and did not return for 35 years.
About this decision, he states: {{cquote My act was conceptual. Once the concept was stated, and everybody understood it, it was done. [...] It was about coming to the end of the road. There was no way to live on in that persona. I had to take that fabulous luck of not being remembered as that, exclusively. You know, I didnt announce that I was stopping. I just stopped.
}}

In 2016, Martin made a rare return to comedy, opening for Jerry Seinfeld. He performed a 10-minute routine before turning the stage over to Seinfeld.
Later in 2016 he returned to stand-up comedy, staging a national tour with Martin Short and the Steep Canyon Rangers, which yielded a 2018 Netflix comedy special, "Steve Martin and Martin Short: An Evening You Will Forget for the Rest of Your Life."
===Acting career===
File:Steve Martin.jpg thumb right upright Martin in 1982
By the end of the 1970s, Martin had acquired the kind of following normally reserved for rock stars, with his tour appearances typically occurring at sold-out arenas filled with tens of thousands of screaming fans. But unknown to his audience, stand-up comedy was "just an accident" for him; his real goal was to get into film.
