Stephen Valentine Patrick William Allen (December 26, 1921 – October 30, 2000) was an American television personality, radio personality, musician, composer, actor, comedian, writer, and advocate of scientific skepticism. In September 1954, he achieved national fame as the first host of The Tonight Show, which was the first late night television talk show.

Though he got his start in radio, Allen is best known for his extensive network television career. He gained national attention as a guest host on Arthur Godfreys Talent Scouts. After he hosted The Tonight Show, he went on to host numerous game and variety shows, including his own The Steve Allen Show, Ive Got a Secret, and The New Steve Allen Show. He was a regular panel member on CBSs Whats My Line?, and from 1977 until 1981 wrote, produced, and hosted the award-winning public broadcasting show Meeting of Minds, a series of historical dramas presented in a talk format.

Allen was a pianist
and a prolific composer. By his own estimate, he wrote more than 8,500 songs,
some of which were recorded by numerous leading singers. Working as  a lyricist, Allen won the 1964 Grammy Award for Best Original Jazz Composition. He also wrote more than 50 books, including novels, childrens books, and books of opinions, including his final book, Vulgarians at the Gate: Trash TV and Raunch Radio (2001).

In 1996 Allen was presented with the Martin Gardner Lifetime Achievement Award from the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry (CSICOP).
He has two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame and The Steve Allen Theater a Hollywood theater named in his honor.
==Early life==
Allen was born in New York City, son of Billy (Carroll Abler) and Belle Montrose Isabelle Allen (née Donohue), a husband and wife vaudeville comedy team.
He was raised on the south side of Chicago South Side of Chicago largely by his mothers Irish Catholic family. Milton Berle called Allens mother "the funniest woman in vaudeville".

Allens first radio job was on station KOY in Phoenix, Arizona, after he left Arizona State Teachers College (now Arizona State University) in Tempe, Arizona Tempe  while still a sophomore. He enlisted in the United States Army U.S. Army during World War II and was trained as an infantryman. He did not serve overseas, instead spending his service time at Camp Roberts, California. He returned to Phoenix before deciding to move back to California.

==Career==
{{refimprove section date=July 2016}}

===Early career===
====Radio====
File:Steve Allen (signature and handprints in cement).jpg right thumb The handprints of Allen in front of Hollywood Hills Amphitheater at Walt Disney Worlds Disneys Hollywood Studios theme park

Allen became an announcer for KFAC (defunct) KFAC in Los Angeles, then moved to the Mutual Broadcasting System in 1946, talking the station into airing his five-nights-a-week comedy show Smile Time, co-starring Wendell Noble. After Allen moved to CBS Radios KNX (AM) KNX in Los Angeles, his music-and-talk half-hour format gradually changed to include more talk in an hourlong late-night format, boosting his popularity and creating standing-room-only studio audiences.
