Steve Byrne (born July 21, 1974) is an American stand-up comedy stand-up comedian and actor. He is best known for creating and starring in Sullivan &amp; Son.

==Personal life==
Steve Byrne was born in Freehold Township, New Jersey Freehold, New Jersey. Byrne grew up in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and went to Hampton High School (Allison Park, Pennsylvania) Hampton High School. He graduated from Kent State University in Kent, Ohio, as a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.  He is of Irish and Korean descent.  Steve has a younger brother, William Byrne.

Steve lives in Los Angeles.  Steve is a huge fan of the Pittsburgh Penguins.  Byrne is a hockey fan and has been playing since the age of six.  Favorite players are Mario Lemieux, Sidney Crosby, Ron Francis and Dave Bolland.  His boyhood idol is Dean Martin. His favorite films are Superman (1978 film) Superman, Swingers (1996 film) Swingers, Made (2001 film) Made, A Christmas Story, Couples Retreat and MacGruber (film) MacGruber. His favorite television shows are Lost (TV series) Lost, The Twilight Zone and Saturday Night Live.
==Career==
Byrne studied theatre at Kent State University. He was exposed to stand up comedy by working at the comedy club Carolines in New York City. The first time he ever got on stage was at Stand Up New York on September 30, 1997.
Steve spent the first seven years of his stand up career cutting his teeth as a stand up in NYC.  He was notorious for being absolutely obsessed with getting up on stage as much as he could.  Hes been cited as saying he spent those seven years working seven days a week, working every single night he could, including New Years, Christmas, etc., doing as many sets as possible.  In 2003, he filmed the documentary film, 13 or Bust where he did 13 shows in one night at every comedy club in Manhattan, breaking the record for most sets in one night by a comedian.  It is available on iTunes as a podcast for free.  In 2006 Comedy Central aired Steves first half-hour special, Comedy Central Presents Steve Byrne.   Byrne had a one-hour special on Comedy Central in 2008 titled Steve Byrnes Happy Hour. On Sunday, July 25, 2010, he had another one-hour special on Comedy Central titled The Byrne Identity. Byrne was also featured on the NBC series The Real Wedding Crashers and a featured comedian on The Tonight Show. He has made appearances on Chappelles Show, Tough Crowd with Colin Quinn, @midnight, The History Channels "History of the Joke," Mad TVs 300th episode and Super Bowl promos on CBS with Prince (musician) Prince and again with Bill Cowher. His stand-up has been featured on The Late Late Show (U.S.) The Late Late Show, Jimmy Kimmel Live!, Last Call with Carson Daly, Black Entertainment Television BETs ComicView, ABC’s Good Morning America as well as Comedy Centrals Premium Blend. He has been a featured comic in Just for Laughs The Just For Laughs Festival in Montreal, the HBO US Comedy Arts Festival in Las Vegas the TBS Very Funny Festival in Chicago, the TBS Very Funny Festival in Toronto and The CanWest Comedy Fest in Vancouver.  He has appeared on the Showtime comedy series "Live Nude Comedy" and shot a pilot for the G4 Network based on a Japanese Game Show called "Drunken Businessman".

His Comedy Central Presents Half Hour Special premiered in 2006 and was voted the seventeenth most popular Comedy Central Presents by fans as part of the Standup Showdown on [http://www.comedycentral.com/events/susd/index.jhtml comedycentral.com]. He also was the winner of the MySpace Standup Or Sitdown competition on TBS. He has had small parts in several films: The Goods: Live Hard, Sell Hard, starring Jeremy Piven and was produced by Will Ferrell; Four Christmases, starring Vince Vaughn and Reese Witherspoon; and Couples Retreat, starring Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau. On July 16, he appeared on Conan (talk show) Conan.  He became a regular on  "The Tonight Show" with Jay Leno and has done it 9 times.  He filmed his third hour special Feb. 8th in New York City in 2014 called "Champion" and its currently streaming on Netflix.  Hes currently touring and working on the material for his fourth hour special, which will be entitled, "Tell the Damn Joke."

Byrne created with Rob Long and is starring in the comedy Sullivan &amp; Son on TBS (U.S. TV channel) TBS that premiered in the summer of 2012. After a very successful summer run with Season One, TBS gave the go ahead for a second season that aired in summer of 2013.  The show proved to be a hit with an average of 2.4 million viewers per episode and was brought back for a third season with 13 episodes slated for summer of 2014.  The show averaged 2 million viewers.  Byrne once again hit the road with the other comedians and co-stars of the show Owen Benjamin, Ahmed Ahmed and Roy Wood Jr. in support of Sullivan &amp; Son thin 2005.  He did a show for Comedy Central and the troops at Ft. Irwin in 2006.   Byrne embarked on his own USO tour of Afghanistan in June 2008, Japan and Guam in July 2009 and Afghanistan again in 2010. He went back on a USO tour with the other comedians from Sullivan and Son to thank the troops in 2013.  He has been part of several national comedy tours including The Jameson Comedy Tour, Vince Vaughn Vince Vaughns Wild West Comedy Tour, and The Camel Cigarettes Sin City Tour, and his own national MySpace tour. He has opened for musical acts Kanye West, Mariah Carey on her Charmbracelet Tour, Modest Mouse, Puddle of Mudd, Spoon (band) Spoon, Rev. Horton Heat, Kings of Leon and many more.  Byrne has toured with The Kims of Comedy with Bobby Lee of Mad TV and Ken Jeong of NBCs Community (TV series) Community and The Hangover (film) The Hangover.  In early 2011, he toured nationwide on The Comedy Road Show with Vince Vaughn and Kevin James to promote the film The Dilemma.  In the summer of 2011, he toured on The New Majority Tour with Lisa Lampanelli, Gabriel Iglesias and Russell Peters.  Since 2005, Byrne has been headlining comedy clubs across the country.  He is currently touring to prepare for his fourth one-hour special.

On the May 2, 2017 episode of Getting Doug with High, host Doug Benson called out Steve Byrne for being the only guest to never participate in the marijuana smoking festivities as a guest on his October 1, 2014 appearance of the show alongside with other guest Chris Porter.

In October 2017, Steve was the supporting act for The Tenderloins in their "Impractical Jokers: Wheres Larry? Tour".
