Taran Hourie Killam (born April 1, 1982) is an American actor, comedian, and writer. He is best known for his television work on shows such as The Amanda Show, Wild n Out, Mad TV,  and Saturday Night Live. Killam is also known for his portrayal of a teen pop star in the 2004 Disney Channel Original Movie Stuck in the Suburbs.

Killam performed the role of King George III in the Broadway theatre Broadway production of Hamilton (musical) Hamilton at the Richard Rodgers Theatre, ending his run on the evening of April 13, 2017.

==Early life==
Killam was born on April 1, 1982
in Culver City, California, and grew up in Big Bear Lake, California.
He graduated from the Los Angeles County High School for the Arts. Killam attended the University of California, Los Angeles for one year in 2000.
==Career==

===Early career===
In 1994, Killam made his first film appearance as an adolescent in Naked Gun 33⅓: The Final Insult. Killam was featured on Nickelodeons The Amanda Show, a sketch-comedy vehicle for Amanda Bynes, on which he played Spaulding, a boy who had a huge crush on Moody, in the soap opera parody "Moodys Point".

Killam joined the cast of MADtv as a featured player during its seventh season from 2001 to 2002. Of the 25 episodes that aired during MADtv{{}}s seventh season, Killam appeared fully in 13 episodes. Joining the MADtv cast at age 19, Killam was the youngest cast member hired on the show and the only cast member on MADtv to get his start on childrens shows (similar to Kenan Thompson on Saturday Night Live). He was a regular cast member on the third and fourth seasons of Nick Cannons Wild N Out. In 2005, Killam co-starred in the television pilot Nobodys Watching, which never aired on network TV.  The pilot gained popularity after it was leaked online and webisodes were produced from 2006 to 2007.
Killam co-starred in the 2004 List of Disney Channel original films Disney Channel original film Stuck in the Suburbs. After MADtv, Killam appeared on TV shows such as Jake in Progress, Still Standing (TV series) Still Standing, Boston Public, Drake &amp; Josh, Do Over, Roswell (TV series) Roswell and Judging Amy. He has appeared on Scrubs (TV series) Scrubs and Scrubs: Interns as List of minor characters of Scrubs#Jimmy Jimmy (the Overly Touchy Orderly). Killam appeared as a contestant on the episode of The Price Is Right (U.S. game show) The Price Is Right which aired on December 7, 2006. The episode was re-aired on July 19, 2007.

He has been in Big Fat Liar, Just Married, Andersons Cross, and My Best Friends Girl (2008 film) My Best Friends Girl.

Killam was a member of the Los Angeles-based improvisational and sketch-comedy troupe the Groundlings. He retired from the main company in  2012.

===Saturday Night Live===
On September 25, 2010, Killam joined the cast of Saturday Night Live for the 36th season, making him the second Nickelodeon veteran (after Kenan Thompson) to join SNL and the second SNL cast member who was previously a cast member on the sketch show MADtv (after Jeff Richards (comedian) Jeff Richards). Killam named Eddie Murphy as his favorite SNL cast member and Arcade Fire as his favorite musical guest.
In August 2016, Killam along with Jay Pharoah were let go from SNL.
===Other work===
In December 2011, Killam replicated the Robyn video "Call Your Girlfriend" in a small writers room and posted it to YouTube. The video went viral and by January 6, 2015 it had been viewed more than 958,382 times.
The late night antics briefly became an Internet phenomenon and garnered Killam media and public attention.
When interviewed on Late Night with Jimmy Fallon, Killam stated that he had not known the dance shown in the songs official video until Robyn was scheduled to appear on SNL as a guest; then, he watched the video repeatedly until he could perform it himself.
In 2011, Killam appeared in Community (TV series) Community episode "Regional Holiday Music" as Mr. Radison (Mr. Rad), a parody of Will Schuester from Glee (TV series) Glee. In 2012 he appeared in iCarly episode "iMeet the First Lady" as a Secret Service agent.

On November 10, 2012, Killam appeared with Kenan Thompson in a short video, "The Legend of Mokiki and the Sloppy Swish". Mokiki is a laboratory test subject who wanders Manhattan performing a shuffling move known as the "Sloppy Swish". The Sketch comedy sketch briefly became an Internet phenomenon and garnered Killam media and public attention.
Mike Ryan of The Huffington Post wrote, "It is one of the most bizarre things to ever air on SNL, yet, the next day, everyone was talking about the Sloppy Swish."
Killam co-starred in the 2013 comedy film The Heat (film) The Heat. Killam voices Zip "Frantic" Danger on the Hulu original series The Awesomes.

In 2013 Killam ventured into the spy genre and the comics industry with The Illegitimates, a six-issue comics miniseries co-written by Marc Andreyko, illustrated by Kevin Sharpe and published by IDW Publishing. The series focuses on a team of illegitimate siblings who are charged with taking the place of their father, Jack Steele, a James Bond-like spy, after his death. The first issue was published December 18, 2013,
