Ted Healy (born Ernest Lea Nash, October 1, 1896 – December 21, 1937) was an American vaudeville performer, comedian, and actor. Though he is chiefly remembered as the creator of the Three Stooges and the style of slapstick comedy that they later made famous, he had a successful stage and film career of his own, and was cited as a formative influence by several later comedy stars. His sister was Marcia Healy who costarred with the Three Stooges as well in The Sitter Downers.

== Early life ==
Sources conflict on Healys precise birth name and birthplace, but according to baptism records, he was born Ernest (or Earnest) Lea Nash on October 1, 1896, in Kaufman, Texas.
He attended Holy Innocents School in Houston before the family moved to New York in 1908. While in New York, he attended high school at De La Salle Institute (New York) De La Salle Institute. Nash initially intended to follow in the footsteps of his father and pursue a career as a high-powered business executive but eventually decided on the stage.
==Show business career==
Nash made his first foray into show business in 1912 at the age of 15. His childhood friend Moe Howard Moses Horwitz (later known as Moe Howard) and he joined the Annette Kellerman Diving Girls, a vaudeville act that included four boys. The act ended quickly after an accident on stage, and Nash and Howard went their separate ways. Nash developed a vaudeville act and adopted the stage name Ted Healy.

Healys act was a hit, and he soon expanded his role as a comedian and master of ceremonies. In the 1920s, he was the highest-paid performer in vaudeville, making $9000 a week.  He added performers to his stage show, including his new wife, Betty Brown (Betty Braun), and his German shepherd dog.
The Healys revue toured, listed on the marquee as Syncopated Toes, and when some of his acrobats quit in late 1923, Moe Howard answered the advertisement for replacements. Since Howard was not an acrobat, Healy cast his old friend as a wikt:stooge stooge (a purported member of the audience who is picked, ostensibly at random, to come onstage). In the routine, Howards appearance would end with Healy losing his trousers.

=== Ted Healy and his Southern Gentlemen ===
Howards brother Shemp Howard Shemp joined the act as a heckler in early 1924, but both Howards temporarily retired from show business by mid-1925.  Ted and Betty were hired in June 1925 to star in the Broadway revue Earl Carroll Vanities of 1925.  Ted brought some of the routines he developed with the Howard brothers, using three comics under contract to Carroll, Dave Chasen, Kenneth Lackey, and Lou Warren.  After a contract dispute whereby it was determined that Carroll was in the wrong, Ted and Betty left "Vanities" in October 1925 with Lou Warren and relaunched their "Syncopated Toes" revue, now retitled Fun in the Healy Manner.  By January 1926 Shemp Howard had returned, and they successfully toured the country through the summer of 1926.  Ted and Betty received another Broadway opportunity, this time from the Shubert Brothers, who hired them for The Passing Show of 1926, with Ted bringing Shemp and Lou along.  "Passing" only enjoyed a preview tour and did not open on Broadway, but the Shuberts and Healy retooled the show into the successful A Night in Spain, with Phil Baker joining the Healys as its stars.  For "Spain," Ted now utilized four stooges in some scenes, Shemp, Lou Warren, brother-in-law Sam "Moody" Braun, and Dick Hakins.  Arriving on Broadway in May 1927 after four months of successful previews, Hakins fell ill and was replaced by comedy/specialty dancer Bobby Pinkus.  In November 1927, "Spain" began a national tour with four months at Chicagos 4 Cohans Grand Opera House.  Larry Fine (actor) Larry Fine, who had been working as the lead performer and house M.C. at Chicagos Rainbo Gardens nightclub and restaurant, was added to Healys group of comics in late March 1928.

The Shuberts hired Ted to star in their new show A Night in Venice (musical) A Night in Venice, with Moe Howard returning to show biz and joining Ted at his home in Connecticut to develop some comedy bits for the revue, which began rehearsals in January 1929.  Shemp Howard also came back, but Larry Fine was in Atlantic City with his wife, waiting for the birth of his daughter.  Healy hired comedy xylophonist Fred Sanborn as a third comic in Fines place.  Circa mid-February, Larry contacted Healy and was welcomed to join the "Venice" cast.

During the run of A Night in Spain, Ted and Betty also performed a song-and-dance stage act in nightclubs and other theaters after the evening curtain went down on "Spain."  But the Healys split in 1928, and Ted came up with the idea to spotlight his stooges in a new act, with the emphasis on comedy and slapstick humor.  Concurrent with their performances in "Venice," Healy booked himself and his troupe in additional shows as "Ted Healy &amp; His Southern Gentlemen" and later as "Ted Healy &amp; His Racketeers."  A Night in Venice (musical) A Night in Venice had a shortened road tour after Broadway and closed in March 1930, largely owing to the economic impact of the Depression.

Fox Films hired Healy to costar in the film Soup to Nuts (filmed in July 1930), and Ted brought Moe, Shemp, Larry, and Fred Sanborn with him. In late August 1930, the Stooges and Healy parted ways after a dispute over a movie contract. Sanborn began a solo career, and the remaining trio began performing on their own, using such monikers as "The Three Lost Soles" and "Howard, Fine, and Howard", and often incorporated material from previous Healy shows. Healy attempted to sue the Stooges for using his material, but the copyright was held by the Shubert Theatre Corporation, for which the routines had been produced, and the Stooges had the Shuberts permission to use it.

Healy hired replacement stooges, consisting of Eddie Moran (soon replaced by Richard "Dick" Hakins), Jack Wolf (father of sportscaster Warner Wolf), and Paul Garner Paul "Mousie" Garner, in early 1931.  This group appeared in two Broadway plays, with Healy co-starring in The Gangs All Here (musical) The Gangs All Here and Billy Roses Crazy Quilt. Moe, Larry, and Shemp rejoined Healys act in late July 1932, but Shemp left on August 19 to pursue a solo career and was replaced by his younger brother, Jerry Howard, renamed Curly Howard. The switch from Shemp to Curly happened very quickly, and on August 27, 1932, only eight days after Shemp departed, "Ted Healy with Howard, Fine &amp; Howard" premiered Curly at the RKO Palace in Cleveland OH.  The new lineups personal appearances headlined many of the prime nightclubs and movie palaces nationally for the next several months.  In late spring 1933 Ted was contracted by MGM, and the act once more headed to Hollywood, this time to stay.  Over the next year, Teds comedy team appeared in several MGM shorts, and even supported stars like Clark Gable and Joan Crawford in features like Dancing Lady.  On his own, Healy was given major roles in MGM features like Bombshell (film) Bombshell with Jean Harlow and Operator 13 with Marion Davies and Gary Cooper. In March 1934, Fine and the Howards permanently and amicably parted professional ways with Ted Healy and began working at Columbia Studios as "The Three Stooges."

=== After the Stooges ===
File:Ted Healy Fiesta.jpg thumb right 200px Healy in the color short La Fiesta de Santa Barbara (1935), one of the earliest examples of the full-color Technicolor film process Healy appeared in a succession of films for MGM from 1934 to 1937 and was also loaned to 20th Century Fox and Warner Bros. for films by those companies, playing both dramatic and comedic roles. One of his films, Mad Holiday (1936), featured stooge Dick Hakins as his sidekick. In San Francisco (1936 film) San Francisco (1936), a new lineup of "stooges" consisting of Jimmy Brewster, Red Pearson, and Sammy Glasser (Sammy Wolfe) filmed a scene with Healy, but it was omitted from the final release; a few production stills of them exist. Also, in the Technicolor short subject La Fiesta de Santa Barbara (1935), Jimmy Brewster briefly appears to stooge with Healy. During this period, Healy took to wearing a toupée in public.
