{{Infobox person
 name         = Tim Conway
 image        = Tim Conway_cropped.jpg
 caption      = Conway in 2007
 birth_name   = Thomas Daniel Conway
 birth_date   = {{birth date and age mf=yes 1933 12 15}} 
 birth_place  = Willoughby, Ohio, U.S.
 alias        = Thomas Daniel Conway, TIm Daniel Conway, Thomas Conway
 alma_mater   = Bowling Green State University
 children = 6
 occupation   = Stand-up comedian, actor, director, writer, singer, voice artist, comedian
 years_active = 1956–present
 spouse       = {{marriage Mary Ann Dalton
<br/>
1961 1978 reason=divorced}}
<br>
 {{marriage Charlene Fusco
 <br/>
 1984}}
 website      = {{url timconway.com/}}
 module       = {{Infobox military person embed=yes
 branch       = {{army United States}}
 serviceyears = 1956-1958
 rank         = 
 battles      = 
}}
}}

Thomas Daniel "Tim" Conway (born December 15, 1933) is an American actor, writer, director, and comedian. He portrayed the inept Mchales navy#Ensign Parker Ensign Parker in the 1960s World War II situation comedy McHales Navy, co-starred on the 1970s variety and sketch comedy program The Carol Burnett Show, starred as the title character in the Dorf series of comedy films, and provides the voice of Barnacle Boy in the animated series SpongeBob SquarePants.

==Early life==
Conway was born in Willoughby, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland, and grew up in nearby Chagrin Falls, Ohio Chagrin Falls.
 He is Irish people Irish on his fathers side and Romanian American Romanian on his mothers.
 Conway attended Bowling Green State University in Bowling Green, Ohio, where he majored in speech and radio, and was a member of the Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. When he graduated, he enlisted in the United States Army to fulfill his military obligation.

==Career==

===Cleveland years===
After his discharge from the Army, Conway returned to Cleveland and worked with Ernie Anderson on WKYC KYW-TV, an NBC affiliate, in 1958 and 1959. From 1960 to 1962, he was on WJW (TV) WJW-TV (then a Columbia Broadcasting System CBS affiliate, now a Fox Broadcasting Company Fox affiliate) on a weekday morning film show (under the Ernies Place banner), where he also wrote material for the comedic skits shown in between film intermissions. Conway also recorded a comedy album with Anderson, who himself gained national prominence as a voice over announcer for American Broadcasting Company ABC Television in the 1970s.

WJW dismissed Conway in 1962, in part because he (and Anderson) misled station management into thinking he had experience as a director.
 Because of this move, which deprived Anderson of his co-host and comic foil, the station asked Anderson if he could host a B-grade (and lower) horror film show on Friday nights instead. Conway continued to make many appearances alongside Andersons alter ego Ghoulardi, in addition to "Big Chuck" Schodowski, a station engineer who Anderson got to assume much of Conways sidekick status (and who ultimately succeeded Anderson as co-host of the horror film program).

After he became famous, Conway resurfaced periodically on Cleveland television on the Hoolihan and Big Chuck and Big Chuck and Lil John shows on WJW-TV, in guest spots and occasional skits. Conway has since made regular guest appearances at numerous "Ghoulardifest" functions held by WJW over the years, along with former Cleveland TV personality Bob Wells (newscaster) Bob "Hoolihan" Wells, in tribute to Anderson, who died in 1997.

===The Steve Allen Show===
Comedic actress Rose Marie visited WJW (TV) WJW in 1961, as part of CBSs promotional practice of sending their major show stars directly to local affiliates: in this case, it was for The Dick Van Dyke Show. She viewed tapes of some of Anderson and Conways skits and proceeded to take Conway under her wing. Following his departure from WJW, Conway moved to New York City; where, with Rose Maries assistance, he auditioned for, and gained a spot on, American Broadcasting Company ABCs The Steve Allen Show as a regular player.
 Conway (who by this point had officially changed his first name to Tim) continued on the show through its entire run.

===McHales Navy===
File:Ernest Borgnine Tim Conway McHales Navy 1962.JPG thumb right 180px Conway and Ernest Borgnine in a photograph of McHales Navy, 1962
Conway gained a national following from his role as the bumbling, naive Ensign Charles Parker, Executive Officer of the World War II PT-73, in the 1960s sitcom McHales Navy, alongside Ernest Borgnine and Joe Flynn (US actor) Joe Flynn. Borgnine became a mentor and a good friend. Conway appeared at Borgnines 90th birthday celebration and, four years later, paid tribute to his friend at 7th Annual Screen Actors Guild Awards on TNT (U.S. TV network) TNT.
 Conway said, "Borgnine was like a big teddy bear and a very pleasant person to be around when he worked with him on the World War Two sitcom McHales Navy."
 Afterwards, he starred in a string of short-lived TV series, starting with 1967s Rango (TV series) Rango which starred Conway as an incompetent Texas Ranger Division Texas Ranger.

===Turn-On===
Conway was part of one of the most infamous network TV programming catastrophes ever: Turn-On, a counterculture counter-cultural sketch comedy show on American Broadcasting Company ABC was derided as a ripoff of NBCs Rowan and Martins Laugh-In. Ironically, Turn-On was created and directed by Laugh-Ins creator George Schlatter. Even though Conway was listed only as a guest star on the television pilot pilot, which ABC broadcast on February 5, 1969, it was the List of television series canceled after one episode only episode that ever aired.

Turn-On was so far ahead of its time in terms of comedic treatment of sexuality that the show received enough immediate, negative reaction to force several ABC affiliates, including WEWS in Conways hometown of Cleveland, to refuse to return to the program after the first commercial break. WEWS management also sent an angrily-worded telegram to the networks headquarters. Many West Coast of the United States West Coast affiliates received advance warning and refused to air the show. Conway remarked that the shows premiere party he attended also marked the programs cancellation party,
 but ABC did not officially cancel the program for several days.

===The Tim Conway Show (1970)===
File:Tim Conway Joe Flynn Tim Conway Show 1970.JPG thumb 180px
 <center>
  Conway and Flynn pose in front of Lucky Linda in a publicity photo for The Tim Conway Show (1970 TV series) The Tim Conway Show taken on January 9, 1970.
 </center>
 In 1970, The Tim Conway Show (1970 TV series) The Tim Conway Show paired Conway with Joe Flynn (US actor) Joe Flynn of McHales Navy in a sitcom as owner-pilots of a one-plane (a Beechcraft Model 18 named Lucky Linda) airline operated by the pair. Having "nowhere to run", this pressurized situation was ideal for the fast repartee of the lead actors. It debuted in January 1970 and the last new show aired in June 1970.
 In the fall of the same year, Conway was given his own hour-long variety show, The Tim Conway Comedy Hour,
 or The Tim Conway Comedy House,
 which, as his other series had, folded quickly, lasting only 13 weeks.
 Typical of his self-effacing humor, he ordered his cars license plate to reflect the short duration of the series: "13 WKS".
 (Conway was given another one-hour variety show ten years later, which revived the title The Tim Conway Show;
 see later section.)

Beginning in 1975, Conway was often paired with Don Knotts in family films from The Walt Disney Company Disney, including The Apple Dumpling Gang (film) The Apple Dumpling Gang and its 1979 sequel, The Apple Dumpling Gang Rides Again. They also starred in two independent films, a boxing comedy called The Prize Fighter in 1979, and a 1980 mystery comedy film called The Private Eyes (1980 film) The Private Eyes. In 1983, he starred in another TV show, Ace Crawford, Private Eye, a parody of detective series; it lasted only five episodes.

===The Carol Burnett Show===
Starting with the 1975–76 United States network television schedule 1975–76 season, Conway became a regular on The Carol Burnett Show, after having been a frequent guest for the shows first eight seasons.
 Conways work on the show earned him four Emmy Awards. 1 emmy  for writing and 3 emmys for performance, one of which was before he became a regular. Two of Conways memorable characters on the Burnett Show were:
*The Oldest Man (character) The Oldest Man, whose shaggy white hair, slow speech, and shuffling gait ran counter to the much-needed energy levels of the various occupations in which he was usually found. His comic inability to get said jobs done — usually with slapstick results to himself and, with many an ad-lib — both frustrated and broke up his fellow sketch performers.
*Mrs. Wiggins Mr. Tudball, a businessman whose intentions of running a ship-shape office were usually sunk by the bored indifference of his secretary, Mrs. Wiggins (Burnett). Although the character was widely thought to be Swedes Swedish, Conway used a Romanian language Romanian accent learned from his mother.
 For example, his attempts to pronounce his secretarys name came out as "Mrs. Ah-huh-wiggins". He also used this accent for other characters, such as an inept dentist.

Conway could also get results with no dialogue, such as in a sketch in which he played a tired businessman seeking restful sleep in his hotel — and pestered by a housefly, created only by a sound effect and Conways gazing after it. After much struggle, he manages to get the fly out of the room through the window; after returning to bed, he hears a persistent knock on his door, gets up to answer it, and opens the door, letting the fly (who was doing the knocking) back in.

Another skit, also without a word from Conway, featured him playing Simba, a lion raised by humans then released to the wild (based on the lioness Elsa in the film Born Free). Conway, told of the upcoming eviction from the comfortable home, caused Burnett and Harvey Korman to break up with an interminable process of packing to leave.

A prime example of his ability to make his co-stars laugh uncontrollably involved Lyle Waggoner as a captured American airman, with Conway as a stereotypical blond-haired Gestapo agent charged with his interrogation. Stating that "the Fuhrer" had taken particular interest, Conway produces a small Hitler hand puppet. With Conway providing a falsetto voice, the puppet suggests that singing might relax Waggoners character to the point he is willing to talk. In a long, drawn-out fashion, the Hitler puppet sings "Ive Been Working on the Railroad", and with each passing verse, Waggoner loses more of his composure, finally laughing hysterically when puppet-Hitler screeches, "FEE-FI-Fiddely-I-O!"

Conway remained a regular cast member of The Carol Burnett Show until the programs run ended, in 1978.

===The Tim Conway Show (1980–1981)===
In 1980, Conway again was given his own one-hour variety program, titled The Tim Conway Show (1980 TV series) The Tim Conway Show (the title that was previously used for his 1970 sitcom). It aired on CBS, as his previous shows had, and debuted on March 22, 1980.
 It was originally a full hour but was reduced to half an hour in summer 1980. It lasted longer than any of his earlier self-titled series, ending in August 1981.
 The format was similar to that of The Carol Burnett Show, with several regular cast members performing in comedy sketches, interspersed with the occasional musical performance by a guest musician. Among the regulars in the cast were Maggie Roswell, Miriam Flynn, Eric Boardman, Jack Riley (actor) Jack Riley, and Dick Orkin. Former Burnett cast member Harvey Korman also became a Tim Conway Show regular in late 1980, after having earlier made guest appearances on the show, as had Carol Burnett and Vicki Lawrence.
 In the spring of 1983, Conway starred in another situation comedy, Ace Crawford, Private Eye; a spoof of detective shows, it lasted only a month. In the summer of 1990, he starred in Tim Conways Funny America, playing pranks in disguise on unsuspecting passersby around the United States while hidden cameras recorded the results, which Conway presented to a studio audience; it, too, lasted only a few weeks.

===Dorf===
Conways more recent work includes a series of satirical how-to videos in which he plays a diminutive, dark-haired Scandinavian known as Dorf (a variation on "dwarf"), reprising his goofy Mr. Tudball accent. The Dorf character first appeared on the January 3, 1986 episode of The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson. In that episode, he was portraying a horse jockey. Dorf also appeared in the 1987 in film 1987 film Dorf on Golf and has since appeared in eight other films on a variety of sports from baseball to auto racing. Dorf on Golf was remastered for DVD in 2007. In 2010, all of the Dorf films were remastered in a DVD Collection featuring all eight films, a behind-the-scenes with Dorf, and a commentary track by Tim Conway on "The Legend of the Paddle: The Oldie Hollis Story". Dorf also appeared on an episode of Tim Conway{{}}s Funny America in the summer of 1990, leading an aerobics class on his impossibly short legs.

In 2009, Conways Dorf character started "helping" Santa Claus on the website iSpotSanta,
 created by comedy filmmaker Pasquale Murena and Anything Goes Productions. Each year, Dorf has three sketches; in 2009, he tried to give Santa his Christmas list, failing and accidentally hitting Santa with a golf ball. Then, in 2010, he tried to give all of the worlds letters to Santa directly using jet rockets to fly to his sleigh, cannonballs, and more.

===Other television===
File:Tim Conway and Robert Morse - 1968.jpg thumb Conway as an angel with Robert Morse on Thats Life (1968 TV series) Thats Life, 1968

Conway has also made many guest appearances and other roles in television.

He guest-starred in American Broadcasting Company ABCs Coach (TV series) Coach, for which he received the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series playing Kenny Montague in the 1996 episode "The Gardener".
 Conway won another Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series for his role as Bucky Bright in the 30 Rock episode "Subway Hero", which initially aired on April 17, 2008.

His other TV roles include:
*1963: Channing (TV series) Channing, playing a job applicant
*1973: The New Scooby Doo Movies, voiced himself in the episode "The Spirited Spooked Sports Show"
*1991: Carol &amp; Company; a cameo appearance as audience member in the episode "That Little Extra Something"
*1995–96: Married... with Children as Ephraim Wanker, hillbilly father of Peg Bundy in four episodes
*1997/99: Diagnosis: Murder, appears in two episodes; in "Comedy is Murder", he and Harvey Korman play former comedy partners Tim Conrad and Harvey Huckaby (A clip of the well-known dentist sketch from The Carol Burnett Show was used to illustrate their partnership)
*1999–present: SpongeBob SquarePants, voicing the character "Barnacle Boy" (14 episodes), a recurring role pairing up as the sidekick to his old McHales Navy co-star, Ernest Borgnine (as Mermaid Man) (Now Joe Whyte from July 9, 2012 – present because Borgnine died of a Kidney failure on July 8, 2012.)
*2001–05: Yes Dear, a recurring role as Tom Warner, the father of Greg, with Carol Burnett Show co-star Vicki Lawrence playing his wife
*2003: On the Spot (2003 TV series) On The Spot, short-lived WB Network comedy, as Mr. Henderson
*2003–10: Hermie and Friends, Max Lucados animated video series, providing the voice of the title character in eight episodes
*2008: Garfields Fun Fest, voicing Freddy Frog and other characters
*2008: 30 Rock, as Bucky Bright, a washed up star from the 1940s and 1950s
*2010: CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, as legendary Vegas comic Knuckles Pratt, in the episode "CSI: Crime Scene Investigation (season 10)#ep226 Take My Life, Please"
*2010, 2013: Hot in Cleveland, in the episodes "Its Not That Complicated" and "Canoga Falls" (in which he is reunited with Carol Burnett)
*2010–11: WordGirl, voicing Bampy Botsford and Museum Security Guard
*2011: Batman: The Brave and the Bold, voicing the Weeper (DC Comics) Weeper in the episode "Joker: The Vile and the Villainous!"
*2011: Wizards of Waverly Place, as Cragmont in the episode "Justins Back In"
*2013: Mike &amp; Molly, as Brian in the episode "School Recital"
*2013: Major Crimes, as a tenant of Shangri-La Apartments in "Theres No Place Like Home"
*2014: Two and a Half Men, as a guest at Martys stag party in "Bite Me, Supreme Court"
*2014: Glee (TV series) Glee, as an old man who plays in Peter Pan in "Old Dog New Tricks"
 He has lent his voice to other TV shows including The Simpsons, Disney spin-off Hercules (1998 TV series) Hercules, Lloyd in Space, The Wild Thornberrys, Cybill, Whats New, Scooby-Doo?, The Proud Family, Scooby-Doo! Pirates Ahoy!, Caillou, and Whats with Andy?.  He also narrated The Secret Shortcut in Reading Rainbow and hosted The Flintstones 25th Anniversary Celebration.

In 2002, Conway was inducted into the Television Hall of Fame.
 On his 75th birthday in 2008, Conway was interviewed as a guest on The Bonnie Hunt Show and given a surprise cake by Bob Newhart.

In 2018, Conway was seen promoting The Carol Burnett Show and other classic television series on the MeTV television network.

===Other film and video===

He starred in List of Disney theatrical feature films Disney films such as The Worlds Greatest Athlete (1973), The Apple Dumpling Gang (film) The Apple Dumpling Gang (1975), Gus (1976 film) Gus (1976), and The Apple Dumpling Gang Rides Again (1979). He starred in the 1977 comedy film The Billion Dollar Hobo.  Conway also co-starred with Don Knotts in The Prize Fighter (1979) and The Private Eyes (1980 film) The Private Eyes (1980). The Longshot Horse Race comedy starring Tim Conway (1986). Conway also appeared with Dick Martin (comedian) Dick Martin in Air Bud: Golden Receiver (1998) as Fred Davis, the main announcer for the Timberwolves final game, with Martin as his co-announcer, Phil Phil. He was Herman Dooly in the 1996 film, Dear God (film) Dear God.

Conway and Harvey Korman created a Collectors Edition DVD of new comedy sketches, titled Together Again; sold through Conways official website and produced by Pasquale Murena.
 Starting in 2003, Conway teamed up with good friend Don Knotts again to provide voices for the direct-to-video childrens series Hermie and Friends, which continued until Knotts death in 2006. Conway continued to do the series.

In 2007, he hosted Thou Shalt Laugh 2: The Deuce, a collection of Christian stand-up comedians.

In 2012-13, he voiced the character Mulch in DreamWorks Dragons: Riders of Berk series.
 In 2014, he played Professor VanVanguard, a knowledgeable character of the lives, characteristics and treating of zombies in the award-winning feature film Chip &amp; Bernies Zomance.
 ==Collaborators==

Conway has collaborated with some of the funniest and most talented people in Hollywood and has kept long-time collaborations with many of them.

===Harvey Korman===

Conway first met Harvey Korman in 1966 while a guest, the first of three, on The Danny Kaye Show. Korman was a four-year series regular on Kayes CBS variety hour. 1967 saw the end of the Kaye show and the debut of The Carol Burnett Show. With Korman available, he stepped into a regular role there. Conway appeared as a guest during that first Burnett season and the two men immediately became friends starting a lifetime of working together until Kormans death in 2008. One of their most famous sketches was from The Carol Burnett Show called "The Dentist Sketch."  In this sketch, Korman goes to the just-graduated dentist Conway for a toothache. Conway proceeds to remove Kormans tooth, but before he can inject the novocaine into Korman, he injects it into himself, causing his head, hand, and leg to go numb.

Korman and Conway performed together for 10 years on The Carol Burnett Show before Korman left to pursue his own show. Korman joined Conway on Conways shows and then later on in the 1986 film The Longshot, which Conway wrote for the two men. Conway also wrote the direct-to-video films Tim and Harvey in The Great Outdoors and Together Again with Tim and Harvey, which the comedy pair starred in together. The DVD Together Again with Tim and Harvey was a recording of their touring stage show that ran over 10 years to sold out markets until Kormans death in 2008. Conway has referred to Korman as, "The smartest man I knew but couldnt tie his shoelaces".

===Don Knotts===

When Conway was starting his career in Hollywood, so was Don Knotts. Both men were regulars on The Steve Allen Show, though at different times. They didnt have the chance to work together until Disney Studios paired the two men on the Apple Dumpling Gang series of films, and their comedy clicked; Knottss boisterous, Barney Fife-style bungling both contrasted and meshed with Conways quieter form of physical comedy. The first film starred Bill Bixby and Susan Clark in 1975 and was called The Apple Dumpling Gang (film) The Apple Dumpling Gang. The film centered around Bixby being tricked into taking care of a trio of orphans as the pair of lovable holdup men named Amos Tucker (Conway) and Theodore Ogelvie (Knotts) attempt to steal the gold nugget the children find. The film was a commercial success, and a sequel was made starring the pair in 1979 called The Apple Dumpling Gang Rides Again. The sequel did not have the other cast members but was hugely profitable for Disney.
 Conway wrote two other films for the pair to star in together starting with The Prize Fighter in 1979 and The Private Eyes (1980 film) The Private Eyes in 1980. Both were independently produced and the highest grossing independent films of those years. They had a cameo in the Cannonball Run II film together and in later years voiced characters Hermie and Wormie in numerous childrens shows from Max Lucado.
 ===Pasquale Murena===

In 2007, Conway met filmmaker Pasquale Murena when Murena was brought in to direct additional scenes and edit the direct-to-DVD film Legend of the Paddle, starring Conway.
 The two men subsequently worked together on numerous productions, including Murena producing the DVD releases of Together Again with Tim and Harvey, the re-releases of Tim and Harvey in The Great Outdoors, Dorf on Golf, and Dorf Goes Fishing. Murena directed, produced and co-wrote with Conway six Dorf comedy sketches for the DVD release of The Ultimate Dorf DVD Collection, which has sold over 3 million copies.
 Starting in 2009, the two men collaborated on their first sketches for the website iSpotSanta, where Dorf helps Santa deliver presents, and works at the North Pole as Santas #1 elf. They have done over 25 comedy sketches and three short films for the website, while garnering over 35 million viewers.
 Conway was quoted in an interview on the Disney Channel, stating that, "Pasquale has done more with Dorf then I ever imagined. We love making these films for kids." Continuing their success, Murena cast Conway as Professor VanVanGuard in his award-winning first feature film in 2014 called, Chip &amp; Bernies Zomance, with Conway adding his unique humor to this zombie film.
 ===Ernie Anderson===
Conway first pitched the idea of Ernie Anderson and his doing a late night show together in Cleveland during the 1960s and that is where Rose Marie found Conway and got him a role on The Steve Allen Show. Before that, the duo recorded two comedy albums together: Are We On? (1966) and Bull (1967). Anderson turned to doing voiceovers after Conway moved on, but their collaborations continued with Conways string of shows and Andersons career as "The Voice of ABC". Anderson performed on sketches and was the voiceover talent for The Carol Burnett Show.
 teaming the pair together.

Anderson become a cult icon in Cleveland as the character Ghoulardi during his own late night television show, where he showed horror B movies to viewers. In 2013, Conway went to the Ghoulardi Fest to promote his book and show his love for his friend Anderson.
 ==Personal life==
{{BLP sources section date=February 2014}}
Conway has been married twice. He was married to Mary Anne Dalton from 1961 until 1978. They had six children together. He has been married to Charlene Fusco since May 18, 1984. Among Tim Conways children is KFI Los Angeles radio host The Tim Conway Jr. Show Tim Conway, Jr. His step-daughter through his second marriage became the tour manager for Conways live tour with Harvey Korman.{{citation needed date=April 2018}}

Interviewed by Raymond Arroyo on his EWTN program The World Over on October 2, 2014, Conway revealed that he had converted to the Catholic faith.
 ==Charitable endeavors==
On June 6–8, 2010, Conway returned to his hometown of Chagrin Falls to put on fund-raising performances at the Chagrin Valley Little Theatre to help kick off its capital campaign.
 He is a spokesperson for the United Leukodystrophy Foundation.
 A fan of thoroughbred horse racing, and an occasional racehorse owner, Conway is a co-founder and vice-president of the Board of Directors of the Don MacBeth Memorial Jockey Fund.
</br>