Tom Rhodes (born January 14, 1967) is an American comedian, actor, Television presenter host, and travel writer.

When Comedy Central began in the early 1990s, Rhodes became the first comedian spokesperson they signed with. Much of his commercial success came during this time. He was later the star of NBCs Mr. Rhodes, Dutch Yorin Televisions Kevin Masters Show starring Tom Rhodes and RTL Travel Yorin Travel. In addition to venues in the United States, Rhodes has also performed in Hong Kong, Tokyo, Bangkok, Kuala Lumpur, Singapore, Beijing, Shanghai, Jakarta, Bali, London, Berlin, Munich, Zurich, Lausanne, Vancouver, Stockholm, Sydney, Melbourne, Basel, Geneva, Copenhagen, and Toronto.

His podcast Tom Rhodes Radio often features other comedians or people he meets while traveling. He writes for The Huffington Post Destinations section and often documents his travels on his YouTube page.
He has released three comedy albums, the most recent being Colossus of Me in 2012, and two DVDs which feature his performances and interviews with locals across the world.

==Career==

===Stand-up comedy===
Rhodes was introduced to stand-up at age 12, when his father took him to a local D.C. comedy club to see his Uncle Bob perform. Because Tom was wearing a Washington Redskins jacket, another comedian pulled him up onstage and interviewed Tom as if he were the Redskins football coach. He claims this was the moment he fell in love with stand-up comedy.{{citation needed date=September 2012}} He also idolized his favorite Uncle Bob, who influenced his sense of humor and the way he talked.

At age 17, Tom took a fake ID and auditioned at the only comedy club in Orlando, Florida Orlando, The Funny Farm. Throughout his junior and senior years, he did shows every weekend in Orlando and branched out to one-nighters all over the state of Florida. After graduating from high school in 1985, Tom went on the road.

At 19, Tom won "The Funniest Person in Central Florida" contest. The grand prize was the opportunity to perform at the Comedy Store in Los Angeles, California.

Rhodes had a chance meeting with Jay Leno at a jazz club called Cheek to Cheek in Winter Park, Florida. Tom was not old enough to get in the club at the time, so he waited by the backstage door for the opening act to walk out. When they did, he stuck his foot in the door and watched Lenos show through a crack in the curtain behind him. When the show was over, Leno discovered Tom and, impressed with his curiosity, took him backstage and let him ask questions about comedy and what it takes to be a comedian. Part of the advice Leno gave was that great comedians should be living in New York or Los Angeles to better seize performing opportunities on stage and TV. On his first appearance on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, Rhodes reminded Leno about this meeting, which Leno recalled.
Rhodes took Lenos advice and moved to New York City. He spent, what he describes in interviews, as the worst year of his life living in Washington Heights, Manhattan Washington Heights "like a dog", with no money and very few comedy sets in the city. Instead, he was performing mostly one-nighters in New Jersey and Long Island. Eventually, he got a break when he was booked as a headliner at his first quality venue, The Punchline near Atlanta, Georgia.

At 22, Rhodes moved to San Francisco, which he called "the Jerusalem of stand-up comedy", with the sole purpose of growing and strengthening his craft. At the time, San Francisco was a beacon for creative comics in the early 1990s. He became friends with other up-and-comers there, such as Margaret Cho, Dana Gould, Marc Maron, Patton Oswalt, and Greg Proops. During this time, Tom got noticed and began appearing on shows like An Evening at the Improv, Comic Strip Live, Carolines Comedy Hour, and MTVs Comedy Half Hour. While in San Francisco, he performed as the opening act at concerts for James Brown and The Everly Brothers.
Tom Rhodes is featured in the 2010 book ¡Satiristas!: Comedians, Contrarians, Raconteurs &amp; Vulgarians
written by Paul Provenza, Host of Showtimes The Green Room with Paul Provenza, which features photos by San Francisco photographer Dan Dion. The book also includes interviews with George Carlin, Eddie Izzard, Trey Parker, and Matt Stone.

===Comedy Central===
After an appearance on Comedy Centrals Two Drink Minimum,
Rhodes was signed to a one-year development deal, the first stand-up to sign with the young station. He filmed several comedic rant commercials.  These were shot in a jail cell and edited like a music video, a format popularized in the early 1990s with Denis Learys MTV rants. Comic Marc Maron, a personal friend of Rhodes, hosted Short Attention Span Theater during this time. On an episode of his WTF with Marc Maron podcast he confessed that during their Comedy Central days, he was jealous of Toms commercials. He said that after he complained "like a little bitch" to the network, he was able to get an image piece on the station just like Tom.

Rhodes said that his time on Comedy Central was a positive one. "They were just starting out [as a station]," he said. "They didnt have these signature shows like South Park, Politically Incorrect, and The Daily Show. It was really like being a junior filmmaker; I could do whatever I wanted! They loved me!"
Rhodes explored this creative license when he hosted and wrote Viva Vietnam: A White Trash Adventure Tour. Viva Vietnam was a docu-comedy and Toms first television travel show. He chose Vietnam because the country had just opened up for tourism in the early 1990s and he had always been interested in Vietnam due to his father David, a decorated Vietnam war helicopter pilot veteran. He wanted to bring humor to something that was otherwise bleak in American history. Viva Vietnam aired in 1995 on the 20th Anniversary of the end of the Vietnam War. Rhodes explored the country, pulling stunts such as setting up a Slip N Slide on China Beach.
In addition to commercials and Viva Vietnam, Tom was often interviewed or featured in other Comedy Central shows, such as Comics Come Home, Politically Incorrect and The Daily Show. As a spokesman, he was utilized by the station for special segments or events. A few of these included going up in the Budweiser (Anheuser-Busch) Budweiser Blimp and interviewing players at Super Bowl XXVIII in Atlanta, Georgia; interviewing Shaquille ONeal in the United States mens national basketball team#Dream Team II Dream Team II as they prepared for the 1994 FIBA World Championship and the 1996 Olympics; and a week on the H.O.R.D.E. festival, in a bus sponsored by Levi Strauss &amp; Co. Levis Jeans and Comedy Central, along with Blues Traveler, Sheryl Crow, Joan Osborne, The Black Crowes, and Ziggy Marley. These segments usually aired during commercial breaks.

Rhodes shot two Comedy Central Presents, which aired in 2001 and 2009, respectively. Both specials were filmed at The Hudson Theatre in New York City. Featured comics are allowed to choose their own unique backgrounds for their episodes. For the first one, Rhodes chose Leonardo da Vincis study overlooking Florence, Italy. For his second, Rhodes requested a background featuring the great monuments of the world, including Colossus of Rhodes (the inspiration for the title of his third CD), to be bunched together.
===Television===
Rhodes starred in NBCs Mr. Rhodes during the 1996-1997 fall lineup. It was his first primetime television show and lasted for 19 episodes, although 2 episodes were left unaired. It followed The Jeff Foxworthy Show at 8:30 p.m. on Monday nights. People Magazine gave the show an A- in their "Picks &amp; Pans" section, calling Rhodes a "gifted standup comic" and the show "a Welcome Back, Kotter for the gentry."
Rhodes has gone on record saying his time on the show was only about six months of his life, but the effect it had on him was immense. The Orlando Sentinel reviewed his sitcom unfavorably, mostly critiquing his acting.
During filming, Rhodes said that the constant jokes about his long hair
and his inability to focus on stand-up, started to get to him. When the show ended, he used the money he earned to live comfortably in New York City again and concentrate on comedy. He called this his "NBC Artists Grant".
  
Rhodes had a relationship with Dutch actress Anniek Pheifer, and moved to the Netherlands with her. The relationship ended, but it jumpstarted his involvement in Dutch television. He hosted the talk show Kevin Masters Show starring Tom Rhodes.
The show ran on Dutch Yorin television for two years beginning in 2002.
The producers of the show wanted an American to host the show and give his take on Dutch culture. The name Kevin Masters was a generic one to use until they found an actual host. Toms audition for the show featured his normal stand-up routine and was selected as the best by producers.
