}}

File:Tom Poston-Constance Ford-Robert Elston in Golden Fleecing.JPG thumb Tom Poston, Constance Ford, and Robert Elston in the Broadway (theater) Broadway production of Golden Fleecing (1959), written by Lorenzo Semple Jr. 
Thomas Gordon Poston (October 17, 1921 – April 30, 2007) was an American television and film actor. He starred on television in a career that began in 1950. He appeared as a comic actor, game show panelist, comedy/variety show host, film actor, television actor, and Broadway theatre Broadway performer. 

According to USA Today Life editor Dennis Moore, Poston appeared in more sitcoms than any other actor.
In the 1980s, he played George Utley opposite Bob Newharts character on Newhart.

==Early life==
Poston was born in Columbus, Ohio, the son of George and Margaret Poston. His father was a liquor salesman and dairy chemist.
After completing high school, Poston attended Bethany College (West Virginia) Bethany College in West Virginia, but did not graduate. While there, he joined the Sigma Nu Fraternity. He joined the United States Army Air Forces in 1941. Accepted to officer candidate school and then graduating from flight training, Poston served as a pilot in the European Theater of World War II European Theater in World War II; his aircraft dropped paratroopers for the invasion of Normandy Normandy invasion.
Poston served in North Africa, Italy, France, and England. After his discharge, he began studying acting in New York City, graduating from the American Academy of Dramatic Arts.
==Career==
In 1953, as Thomas Poston, he was cast as "Detective" in the film City That Never Sleeps. In 1957, Poston gained recognition as a comedic "Man in the Street" (along with his colleagues Louie Nye, Dayton Allen and Don Knotts) on The Steve Allen Show. For these performances, Poston won the 1959 Emmy Award for Best Supporting Actor (Continuing Character) in a Comedy Series. In the fall of 1959, when the Allen program moved west to Los Angeles, Tom remained in New York, appearing frequently on Broadway and television game shows. 

His film career was limited, with appearances in films such as William Castles Zotz! (1962), The Old Dark House (1963 film) The Old Dark House (1963), Soldier in the Rain (1963), Cold Turkey (film) Cold Turkey (1971), The Happy Hooker (film) The Happy Hooker (1975), Rabbit Test (film) Rabbit Test (1978), Up the Academy (1980) and Carbon Copy (film) Carbon Copy (1981). 

However, his television career was expansive, covering the better part of five decades. When Mel Brooks submitted his idea for Get Smart to the American Broadcasting Corporation ABC network, ABC wanted Poston for the lead role of Maxwell Smart.
When ABC passed on the show, NBC picked it up and the lead went to Don Adams. Poston, however, made a guest appearance on the show as a KAOS villain. He appeared in Thriller (U.S. TV series) Thriller during its second season in 1961. The episode, number six, was entitled "Masquerade" and starred Elizabeth Montgomery.

In 1968, Poston played the role of the Scarecrow (Oz) Scarecrow, at The Municipal Opera Association of St. Louis, production of The Wizard of Oz (adaptations) The Wizard of Oz. Lana Cantrell played Dorothy Gale, and Betty Low played the Sorceress of the North, also known as Glinda.
File:Tom Poston (handprints in cement).jpg right thumb 250px The handprints of Tom Poston in front of Hollywood Hills Amphitheater at Walt Disney Worlds Disneys Hollywood Studios theme park.
Poston was a recurring guest star on The Bob Newhart Show in the 1970s. He later played the role of Franklin Delano Bickley on Mork &amp; Mindy. 

A longtime friend of Bob Newhart, Poston played George Utley, a simple country handyman of the Stratford Inn, on Newhart and appeared with Newhart in Cold Turkey (film) Cold Turkey as the town drunk, Edgar Stopworth. He was nominated for an Emmy Award three times for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series for his performance on Newhart in 1984, 1986, and 1987. He had a third role with Newhart in the short-lived Bob (TV series) Bob.{{cn date=January 2018}}

Poston had regular roles on many other television series: Family Matters, Murphy Brown, Home Improvement (TV series) Home Improvement, Cosby, Malcolm &amp; Eddie, ER (TV series) ER, Grace Under Fire, That 70s Show (as Kitty Formans father, Burt Sigurdson), Will &amp; Grace, and guest starred in Dancin Homer an episode of The Simpsons as the List of recurring The Simpsons characters#Capital City Goofball Capital City Goofball. He played dentist/jeweler, Art Hibke, on ABCs Coach (TV series) Coach, for which he was nominated for an Emmy for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series in 1991. He guest-starred on Home Improvement as a surly airport clerk in Alpena, Michigan when Tim and Al get stuck there during a snowstorm on Christmas Eve, and again as that characters brother in the episode "The Tool Man Delivers", and again as the third brother in the episode “Thanksgiving”.{{cn date=January 2018}}

In 2001, he appeared on The Lone Gunmen (TV series)  The Lone Gunmen episode "The Capn Toby Show"
and in King of the Hill episode "Now Whos The Dummy?" as Mr. Popper (voice). In 2005, he played the character "Clown" on the brief-lived NBC series Committed (2005 television series) Committed and guest-starred on the ABC series 8 Simple Rules as Rorys unlawful friend Jake in the episode "Good Moms Gone Wild". In 2006, Poston guest-starred on an episode of The Suite Life of Zack &amp; Cody, entitled "Ah! Wilderness" as Merle, which was his final role.

==Personal life==
Poston and actress Jean Sullivan were married in 1955 and divorced in 1968. Their daughter is actress Francesca Poston.

Poston married Kay Hudson in 1968. They had two children, daughter Hudson Poston and son Jason Poston. They divorced in 1975 but remarried in 1980 and remained together until her death in 1998 from Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS.
In 2001, Poston married actress Suzanne Pleshette, who played the wife of Newharts character Bob Hartley on The Bob Newhart Show, his fourth marriage, and her third marriage.
==Death==
After a brief illness, Poston died of respiratory failure on April 30, 2007, in Los Angeles, California at the age of 85.
He predeceased Pleshette by seven months. Although he was not Jewish, he is interred in the Jewish Hillside Memorial Park Cemetery alongside Pleshette, who was Jewish.{{cn date=January 2018}}
