Thomas Edward Trinder Order of the British Empire CBE (24 March 1909 – 10 July 1989), known as Tommy Trinder, was an English stage, screen and radio comedian of the pre- and post-war years whose catchphrase was You lucky people.

==Life==

Born at 54 Wellfield Road, Streatham, South London, (a plaque from the Streatham Society marks the spot) on 24 March 1909, the son of Thomas Henry Trinder, a London tram driver from Shilton, Oxfordshire, and his wife Jennie Georgina Harriet Mills, Tommy Trinder was one of the best-loved comedians in Britain during the period from the late 1930s until the 1960s.

He left school early for a job as an courier errand boy but by the age of 12 was on stage. He toured South Africa with a revue company in 1921 and appeared as a boy vocalist at Collins Music Hall the following year. Minor successes in music hall, revues and working mens clubs followed. By 1926, aged 17, Trinder was the star of Archie Pitts travelling variety comedy shows.

National recognition began to come in 1937 with the revues Tune In and In Town Tonight. By World War II he was one of Britains foremost entertainers and his shows brought welcome relief during the darkest days of the war.

File:Tommy Trinder and Jean Colin.jpg thumb left Trinder with Jean Colin during the making of Communal Kitchen: Eating Out With Tommy Trinder for the Ministry of Information (United Kingdom) Ministry of Information in 1941.
Ealing Studios signed him up to films during the war. His most famous was the comedy Sailors Three in which he, Claude Hulbert and Michael Wilding (actor) Michael Wilding capture a German pocket battleship.

He also took straight acting parts in The Foreman Went to France, The Bells Go Down (a tribute to the work done by Firefighter firemen in London during the The Blitz Blitz); and  Bitter Springs (film) Bitter Springs about a family fighting to make a new life in the Australian Outback.

He is believed to have originated "Trinders Impossibility"{{Citation needed date=October 2008}} – a "bar bet" where the mark is presented with a ten shilling Banknote note, partly torn through in two places at right angles to the long side and challenged to hold the two corners of the torn edge and tear it into three pieces. It cannot be done.

After the war, as a national figure he was soon recruited to television. In 1955, he became the first compere for the new ITV (TV network) ITV television programme Sunday Night at the London Palladium.

"He would begin his act with, The names Trinder. Thats T-R-I-N-D-E-R, pronounced Chumley. This witticism was a gentle dig at the snobs of society, who insisted on pronouncing ordinary names in a fancy way which was utterly un-phonetic."
He lived in an Art Deco-style apartment block – Du Cane Court, in Balham, south-west London – the largest such under one roof in Europe in the 1930s. He moved in with Violet Trinder (née Bailey; they had married in 1932) in 1939, and was still there in 1955. A neighbour described an impromptu encounter she had with him in which her silk scarf had covered her features. He said: "One should never hide a pretty face."
