Antony Gordon Hawksworth, Order of the British Empire MBE (born 12 May 1960), known professionally as Tony Hawks, is a British comedian and author.

==Early life==
Born in Brighton, East Sussex,
Hawks was educated at Brighton Hove and Sussex Grammar School (1971–76) (which became Brighton Hove &amp; Sussex Sixth Form College in 1975) and Brighton College (1976–78).
He stated during an appearance on Im Sorry I Havent a Clue that he had briefly attended the University of Manchester.

==Career==
After leaving a drama degree at Manchester University prematurely
, Hawks appeared in the West End musical Lennon - A Musical Biography at London Astoria The Astoria.
By 1988, before he found chart success, he was already appearing in BBC Radio 4s Big Fun Show with Paul Merton, John Irwin and Josie Lawrence.
Hawks first attempted to break into show business as a singer-songwriter, but it was with a novelty record that he had his first brush with fame. As leader of the trio Morris Minor and the Majors, he reached number 4 in the UK Singles Chart with the Beastie Boys parody, "Stutter Rap (No Sleep til Bedtime)" in 1988.
It went on to sell 220,000 copies, and reached a peak of number two in Australia. The follow-up, a pastiche of Stock Aitken Waterman called "This Is the Chorus", fared less well.

A TV series followed from this, Morris Minors Marvellous Motors, written by and starring Hawks.
In it the fictional bandleader attempted to maintain his pop career while running a garage. It ran for one series in 1989.

Hawks performs stand-up comedy, and is a regular on TV and radio panel games in the United Kingdom UK, including Im Sorry I Havent a Clue, Just a Minute, The Unbelievable Truth (radio show) The Unbelievable Truth and Have I Got News for You, although he first came to prominence as one of two resident performers — the other was Jo Brand — on semi-successful BBC monologue show The Brain Drain.
He has also appeared in Red Dwarf in a number of supporting roles, on several occasions as a voice artist for intelligent machines. Hawks provided the voice of a vending machine in "Future Echoes" and "Waiting for God (Red Dwarf) Waiting for God" and the voice of a suitcase in "Stasis Leak", and appeared on screen as The Guide in "Better Than Life (Red Dwarf) Better Than Life", The Compere in "Backwards (Red Dwarf episode) Backwards", and Caligula in "Meltdown (Red Dwarf) Meltdown".  On 29 May 2009, Hawks featured in an episode of "Carpool (web series) Carpool", with his Red Dwarf co-star Robert Llewellyn.

He also provided the voice-over for a restaurant advertisement in the episode "Me²", although this role was uncredited. In the first few seasons of Red Dwarf, Hawks performed a warm-up act for the live audience before taping began. He has appeared as a Pundit (expert) pundit the television series Grumpy Old Men (TV series) Grumpy Old Men and as a contestant on the BBC quiz show Schools Out (TV series) Schools Out.

In November 2010, he was a guest on a number of TV and radio programmes to discuss the film version of Round Ireland with a Fridge, including Simon Mayos BBC Radio 2 show, "Loose Ends", BBC Radio Wales and BBC Radio Scotland. He was also a contestant on a special edition of Mastermind (TV series) Mastermind for Children in Need; featured as part of Comic Relief 2011.

In March 2011, he travelled to Japan to appear at the Okinawa International Movie Festival where Round Ireland with a Fridge was nominated for Best Comedy. In late 2011, Hawks completed his first national theatre tour for a decade, taking his one-man show, Random Fun to 30 towns and cities around the UK. He was also a guest on many television and radio shows during the tour including BBC Breakfast and The Wright Stuff.{{citation needed date=December 2012}}

In August 2013, he, as well as many other comedians appeared in the television adaptation of the Radio show Just a Minute for the 45th anniversary of the show.

==Books==
Hawks has written six books:
* Round Ireland with a Fridge: His first book was an account of his attempt to hitchhike around Ireland with a refrigerator fridge to win a bar bet.
It sold over 800,000 copies.
* Playing the Moldovans at Tennis: His second book, also the result of a drunken bet (with the comedian Arthur Smith (comedian) Arthur Smith), this time involved an attempt to beat each member of the Moldova national football team in a game of tennis, based on the theory that people good at one sport arent necessarily good at others.
* One Hit Wonderland: His third book, describes his attempt, over 10 years after his first, to write a second hit song. This culminates in him performing on Albanian television with Norman Wisdom and Tim Rice.
* A Piano in the Pyrenees: The Ups and Downs of an Englishman in the French Mountains: An account of his purchase of a house in the Pyrenees in the south of France, after deciding that the two things he wanted in life were to meet his soul mate, and to purchase an "idyllic house abroad somewhere abroad".
* The Fridge Hikers Guide to Life.
*Once Upon a Time in the West...Country
Hawks has also contributed to the collection The Weekenders: Travels in the Heart of Africa.
==Influences==
Hawks chose The Power of Now by Eckhart Tolle as the book he would take with him to a desert island.
==Film adaptations==
The full-length feature film version of his book Round Ireland with a Fridge, starring Hawks, Josie Lawrence, Ed Byrne (comedian) Ed Byrne and Sean Hughes (comedian) Sean Hughes, was released in 2010.
The film was shot in London, West Wales, the Surrey Hills and Ireland in 2009. It was directed by Ed Bye and the producers were Tony Hawks, Simon Sharkey and Greg Macmanus, the cinematographer was John Sorapure and the film editor was Mark Wybourn. The film premiered at the Cambridge Film Festival and was released on DVD on 8 November 2010.

Playing the Moldovans at Tennis, was released in 2012 and starred Hawks with Anatol Durbala, Steven Frost, Angus Deayton, Morwenna Banks and Laura Solon with Pat Cash as the commentator.

It was co-directed by Hawks and Mikolaj Jaroszewicz, cinematographer on the Oscar winning Peter and the Wolf, and edited by Christopher White. Production design was by Edward Lidster and Vlad Lozovan, sound by Ludovic Lassare and lighting by Tim Jordan. 

It was the first British feature film to be made in Moldova, with additional filming in London, Belfast and Israel and it premiered with a special charity screening at the Odeon West End in Leicester Square on 21 June 2012

==Theatre==
Hawks staged a special charity performance of his comedy musical Midlife Cowboy at the Lyric Theatre in London on 25 April 2016. It starred Hawks, Jack Dee, Doon Mackichan, Ben Miller, Alistair McGowan and Charlotte Page. Proceeds from the performance were donated to the Tony Hawks Care Home in Moldova.

==Other activities==

Hawks donated half of the royalties from his book Playing the Moldovans at Tennis to a trust fund for Moldova,
which was used to open the Hippocrates Centre, a medical centre that provides rehabilitative therapy for disabled children from socially vulnerable families. Hawks continues to support Hippocrates through fundraising and personal involvement and was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2017 Birthday Honours "for services to disadvantaged children in Moldova".
Proceeds from the film version of Playing the Moldovans at Tennis also go to the Care Home.

Hawks is the co-founder and public face of the Tennis for Free campaign which aims to make Britains existing municipal tennis facilities available to all.
He won the British Actors Equity Tennis Tournament for three years running.{{citation needed date=December 2012}}

Hawks is currently{{when date=February 2013}} collaborating with Chesney Hawkes on various songs available from a MySpace website.
He is frequently confused with pro-skateboarder Tony Hawk, largely because the latters video game franchise uses the possessive apostrophe ("Tony Hawks"). Hawks maintains a list of emails intended for the skateboarder and his mischievous responses to them, on his website.
On 2 January 2008, he appeared on an edition of Mastermind (TV series) Celebrity Mastermind, with Tony Hawk as his chosen specialist subject.
Hawks noted that his correspondents "might be able to do backside varials but they cant spell to save their lives".
