William Clement Frawley (February 26, 1887 – March 3, 1966) was an American stage entertainer and screen and television actor best known for playing landlord Fred Mertz in the famous American Sitcom television sitcom I Love Lucy and Bub in the television comedy series My Three Sons.

Frawley began his career in vaudeville in 1914 with his wife, Edna Louise Broedt. Their comedy act, known as "Frawley and Louise", continued until their divorce in 1927. Frawley performed on Broadway theatre Broadway multiple times and signed with Paramount Pictures Paramount Studios in 1916 to play in silent films. He appeared in more than one hundred films over 35 years.
==Early life==
William Clement Frawley was born of Irish ancestry in 1887 in Burlington, Iowa, the second son of four children of Michael A. Frawley (1857–1907) and Mary E. (Brady) Frawley (1859–1921). He attended Catholic schools and sang in the choir at St. Pauls Catholic Church. As he got older, he played small roles in local theater productions at the Burlington Opera House as well as performed in amateur shows, though his mother, a highly religious woman, discouraged such activities.
Frawleys first job was as a Stenographer stenographer in an office of the Union Pacific Railroad in Omaha, Nebraska.
After two years working in that position, he relocated to Chicago, where he found a job as a court reporter. Not long after that move, and against his mothers wishes, he obtained a singing part in a musical comedy, The Flirting Princess. To appease his mother, Frawley relocated to St. Louis, Missouri, to work for another railroad company.
Feeling unfulfilled in that job as well, he continued to hope he would one day be a professional entertainer. He finally decided to act on that desire by forming a vaudeville act with his brother Paul (1889–1973), but six months later Frawleys mother told Paul to return to Iowa. Meanwhile, William wrote and sold a script titled Fun in a Vaudeville Agency, earning more than $500 for his efforts. {{cn date=March 2018}}

After his initial success as a scriptwriter, Frawley decided to relocate yet again, this time to the Western United States West, settling in Denver, Colorado Denver, where he was hired as a singer at a café and teamed with pianist Franz Rath. The duo soon moved to San Francisco with their act, "A Man, a Piano, and a Nut". During his vaudeville career, Frawley introduced and helped popularize the songs "My Mammy",
"My Melancholy Baby", and "Carolina in the Morning". Many years later, in 1958, he recorded a selection of his old stage songs on an LP album LP, Bill Frawley Sings the Old Ones.
==Early career==
File:Something to Sing About Cagney Frawley Windheim.jpg thumb left With James Cagney in Something to Sing About (1937 film) Something to Sing About
Frawley began performing in Broadway theater. His first such show was the musical comedy, Merry, Merry, in 1925. He later made his first dramatic role in 1932, playing press agent Owen OMalley in the original production of Ben Hecht and Charles MacArthurs Twentieth Century (play) Twentieth Century. He continued to be a dramatic actor at various locales until 1933.
In 1916, Frawley had appeared in two short subject silent films. He performed subsequently in three other short films, but he had not decided to develop a cinematic career until 1933, beginning with short comedy films and the feature musical Moonlight and Pretzels (Universal Studios, 1933). He relocated to Los Angeles, where he signed a seven-year contract with Paramount Pictures.

Finding much work as a character actor, he had roles in many different genres of films — comedy film comedies, drama film dramas, musical film musicals, western film Westerns, and romantic film romances. He appeared in Miracle on 34th Street (1947), portraying Judge Harpers political adviser, who warns his client in great detail of the dire political consequences if he rules that there is no Santa Claus.
Some of his other memorable film roles were as the baseball manager in Joe E. Brown (comedian) Joe E. Browns Alibi Ike (1935), as the wedding host in Charlie Chaplins Monsieur Verdoux (1947), and as a hard-nosed insurance investigator in My Home in San Antone, with Roy Acuff and Lloyd Corrigan.
==Television==
===I Love Lucy===
File:I Love Lucy Cast.JPG thumb The I Love Lucy cast (clockwise): William Frawley, Desi Arnaz, Lucille Ball, Vivian Vance 
By 1951, the 64-year-old Frawley had appeared in over 100 movies, but was starting to find film role offers becoming fewer. When he heard that Desi Arnaz and Lucille Ball were casting a new television situation comedy, he applied eagerly to play the role of the cantankerous, miserly landlord Fred Mertz.{{cn date=March 2018}}

One evening he telephoned Lucille Ball, asking her what his chances were. Ball was surprised to hear from him — a man she barely knew. Both Ball and Arnaz agreed it would be great to have Frawley, a motion picture veteran, appear as Fred Mertz. Less enthusiastic were CBS executives, who warned of Frawleys frequent drinking and instability. Arnaz warned Frawley about the networks concerns, telling him that if he was late to work, arrived drunk, or was unable to perform because of something other than legitimate illness more than once, he would be written out of the show. A slightly different version of this conversation holds that Arnaz contacted the other actor and told Frawley he would get three chances. The first screw-up would be tolerated, the second would result in a severe reprimand, and the third would result in his being fired. Contrary to the networks concerns, Frawley never arrived at work drunk, and mastered his lines after only one reading. Arnaz eventually became one of Frawleys few close friends.{{cn date=March 2018}}

I Love Lucy debuted October 15, 1951, on CBS, and was a huge success. The series was broadcast for six years as half-hour episodes, later changing to hour-long television special specials from 1957-60 titled The Lucy-Desi Comedy Hour The Lucille Ball-Desi Arnaz Show (later retitled The Lucy-Desi Comedy Hour).
Vivian Vance played Ethel Mertz, Frawley’s on-screen wife. Although the two actors worked well together, they greatly disliked each other. Most attribute their mutual hatred to Vances vocal resentment of having to play wife to a man 22 years her senior. Frawley reportedly overheard Vance complaining; he took offense and never forgave her. "Shes one of the finest girls to come out of Kansas", he once observed, "But I often wish shed go back there."
An avid New York Yankees baseball fan, Frawley had it written into his I Love Lucy contract that he did not have to work during the World Series if the Yankees were playing. The Yankees were in every World Series during that time except for 1954 and 1959. He did not appear in two episodes of the show as a result.
For his work on the show, Frawley was Emmy Award Emmy-nominated five consecutive times (1953-1957) for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a comedy series. In 1957, at the end of I Love Lucy, Ball and Arnaz gave Frawley and Vance the opportunity to have their own Fred and Ethel television spin-off spin-off series for Desilu Studios. Despite his animosity towards her, Frawley saw a lucrative opportunity and accepted. Vance declined, having no desire to work with Frawley again and also feeling that Ethel and Fred would be unsuccessful without the Ricardos.
===My Three Sons===
File:William Frawley This Is Your Life 1961.JPG thumb upright=1 While appearing on My Three Sons, Frawley was the subject of This Is Your Life in January 1961. He received a lifetime baseball pass from the Angels Fred Haney. Fred MacMurray also was part of the show.
Frawley next joined the cast of the American Broadcasting Company ABC (later CBS) situation comedy My Three Sons, playing live-in grandfather and housekeeper Michael Francis "Bub" OCasey beginning in 1960. Featuring Fred MacMurray, the series was about a widower raising his three sons. Frawley was originally slated to be the series lead before MacMurray joined the cast, relegating Frawley to supporting player.
File:1962 My Three Sons.jpg thumb left upright=1 Clockwise from left: William Frawley, Tim Considine, Fred MacMurray, Don Grady, and Stanley Livingston on My Three Sons (1962)
Frawley reportedly never felt comfortable with the out-of-sequence filming method used for My Three Sons after doing I Love Lucy in sequence for years. Each television season season was arranged so that main actor Fred MacMurray could film all of his scenes during two separate intensive blocks of filming for a total of 65 working days on the set; Frawley and the other actors worked around the absent MacMurray for the remainder of the years production schedule. By the mid-1960s, alcohol and old age finally took their toll, and Frawley began forgetting his lines. By the shows fifth season, Frawley was in such ill health that he couldnt pass the studios annual health insurance exam and was let go from the program and replaced by William Demarest, who played the role of Bubs brother, Uncle Charley, who moved in to keep house and take care of the family in Bubs absence.
==Personal life==
In 1914, Frawley married fellow vaudevillian Edna Louise Broedt. They developed an act, "Frawley and Louise", which they performed all across the country. Their act was described as "light comedy, with singing, dancing, and patter." The couple Legal separation separated in 1921 (later divorcing in 1927). They had no children. His brother Paul Frawley (1889–1973) also was an actor on Broadway with relatively few appearances in motion pictures.
Frawley had a reputation for being cantankerous and difficult, likely exacerbated by a drinking problem. In 1928, he was fired from the Broadway show Thats My Baby for punching actor Clifton Webb in the nose.
==Final years and death==
Frawley made two television appearances the year before his death. His appearance on the panel show Ive Got a Secret on May 3, 1965, consisted of contestants guessing Frawleys "secret," which was that he was the first performer ever to sing "My Melancholy Baby," in 1912.
He had performed that song previously on television, as Fred Mertz,  in the 1958 episode "Lucy Goes to Sun Valley" on the Lucy-Desi Comedy Hour.
Frawleys final on-camera performance was on October 25, 1965, with a brief cameo appearance in Lucille Balls second television sitcom The Lucy Show in the episode "Lucy and the Countess Have a Horse Guest". Frawley plays a horse trainer and Lucy comments: "You know, he reminds me of someone I used to know." (Vivian Vance, who by then had left The Lucy Show except for an occasional guest appearance, does not appear in that episode.)
File:William Frawley Star HWF.JPG thumb upright Star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6322 Hollywood Blvd.

Frawley died of a myocardial infarction heart attack on March 3, 1966, in Hollywood at the age of 79.
Arnaz, Fred MacMurray, and My Three Sons executive producer Don Fedderson were pallbearers at his funeral.{{citation needed date=January 2017}}

Lucille Ball said: "Ive lost one of my dearest friends and show business has lost one of the greatest character actors of all time. Those of us who knew him and loved him will miss him."
===Legacy===
William Frawley is buried in the San Fernando Mission Cemetery in Mission Hills, Los Angeles, California Mission Hills, Los Angeles. For his achievements in the field of motion pictures, he was awarded a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, at 6322 Hollywood Boulevard Hollywood Blvd on February 8, 1960.
