William Penn Adair "Will" Rogers (November 4, 1879 – August 15, 1935) was a stage and motion picture actor, vaudeville performer, United States American cowboy, humorist, newspaper columnist, and social commentator from Oklahoma. He was a Cherokee citizen born in the Cherokee Nation, Indian Territory.

Known as "Oklahomas Favorite Son",
Rogers was born to a prominent Cherokee Nation (19th century) Cherokee family in Indian Territory (now part of Oklahoma). As an entertainer and humorist, he traveled around the world three times, made 71 Cinema of the United States films (50 silent films and 21 "talkies"),
and wrote more than 4,000 print syndication nationally syndicated newspaper columns.
By the mid-1930s, the American people adored Rogers. He was the leading political wit of his time and was the highest paid Classical Hollywood cinema Hollywood film star. Rogers died in 1935 with aviator Wiley Post, when their small airplane crashed in northern Alaska.
Rogerss vaudeville rope act led to success in the Ziegfeld Follies, which in turn led to the first of his many movie contracts. His 1920s syndicated newspaper column and his radio appearances increased his visibility and popularity. Rogers crusaded for aviation expansion and provided Americans with first-hand accounts of his world travels. His earthy anecdotes and folksy style allowed him to poke fun at gangsters, Prohibition, politicians, government programs, and a host of other controversial topics in a way that was appreciated by a national audience, with no one offended.
His aphorisms, couched in humorous terms, were widely quoted: "I am not a member of an organized political party. I am a Democrat." Another widely quoted Will Rogers comment was "I dont make jokes. I just watch the government and report the facts."

Rogers even provided an epigram on his most famous epigram:
<blockquote>
 When I die, my epitaph, or whatever you call those signs on gravestones, is going to read: "I joked about every prominent man of my time, but I never met a man I dident{{sic}}
 <!-- "Dident" is Will Rogerss spelling, please DO not CHANGE THIS. -->
 like." I am so proud of that, I can hardly wait to die so it can be carved.
</blockquote>
==Early years==
File:DogIronRanchHouse.jpg thumb 250px left The White House on the Verdigris River, Will Rogers birthplace, near Oologah, Oklahoma
Rogers was born on his parents Dog Iron Ranch in the Cherokee Nation of Indian Territory, near present-day Oologah, Oklahoma. The house in which he was born had been built in 1875 and was known as the "White House on the Verdigris River".
His parents, Clement V. Rogers Clement Vann Rogers (1839–1911) and Mary America Schrimsher (1838–1890), were both of mixed-race and Cherokee ancestry, and identified as Cherokee. Rogers was 9/32 (just over 1/4) Cherokee, with the remainder European American.
Rogers quipped that his ancestors did not come over on the Mayflower, but they "met the boat".
His mother was one quarter-Cherokee and born into the Paint Clan.
She died when Will was 11. His father remarried less than two years after her death.

Rogers was the youngest of eight children. He was named for the Cherokee leader Col. William Penn Adair.
Only three of his siblings, sisters Sallie Clementine, Maude Ethel, and May (Mary), survived into adulthood.

His father, Clement, was a leader in the Cherokee Nation. An attorney and Cherokee judge, he was a Confederate States of America Confederate veteran. He served as a delegate to the Constitution of Oklahoma Oklahoma Constitutional Convention. Rogers County, Oklahoma, is named in honor of him.
He served several terms in the Cherokee Senate. Clement Rogers achieved financial success as a rancher and used his influence to help soften the negative effects of white acculturation on his people.

Roach (1980) presents a sociological-psychological assessment of the relationship between Will and his father during the formative boyhood and teenage years. Clement had high expectations for his son and wanted him to be more responsible and business-minded. Will was more easygoing and oriented toward the loving affection offered by his mother, Mary, rather than the harshness of his father. The personality clash increased after his mothers death when the boy was 11. Young Will went from one venture to another with little success. Only after Will won acclaim in vaudeville did the rift begin to heal. Clements death in 1911 precluded a full reconciliation.
Will Rogers attended school in Missouri, at the Willow Hassel School at Neosho, and Kemper Military School at Boonville. He was a good student and an avid reader of The New York Times, but he dropped out of school after the 10th grade.
Rogers later said that he was a poor student, saying that he "studied the Fourth Reader for ten years". He was much more interested in cowboys and horses, and learned to rope and use a lasso lariat.
===First jobs===
Rogers worked at the Dog Iron Ranch for a few years. Near the end of 1901, when he was 22 years old, he and a friend left home hoping to work as gauchos in Argentina.
They arrived in Argentina in May 1902, and spent five months trying to make it as ranch owners in the Pampas. Rogers and his partner lost all their money, and he later said, "I was ashamed to send home for more."  The two friends separated and Rogers sailed for South African Republic South Africa. It is often claimed he took a job breaking in horses for the British Army, but the Second Boer War Boer War had ended three months earlier.
Rogers was hired at James Picciones ranch near Mooi River (town) Mooi River Station in the Pietermaritzburg district of KwaZulu-Natal Natal.
===Circus performer===
Rogers began his show business career as a Trick roping trick roper in "Texas Jacks Wild West Circus" in South Africa:
<blockquote>
 He Texas Jack (South Africa) [Texas Jack] had a little Wild West aggregation that visited the camps and did a tremendous business. I did some roping and riding, and Jack, who was one of the smartest showmen I ever knew, took a great interest in me. It was he who gave me the idea for my original stage act with my pony. I learned a lot about the show business from him. He could do a bum act with a rope that an ordinary man couldnt get away with, and make the audience think it was great, so I used to study him by the hour, and from him I learned the great secret of the show business—knowing when to get off. Its the fellow who knows when to quit that the audience wants more of.
</blockquote>
Grateful for the guidance but anxious to move on, Rogers quit the circus and went to Australia. Texas Jack gave him a reference letter for the Wirth Brothers Circus there, and Rogers continued to perform as a rider and trick roper, and worked on his pony act. He returned to the United States in 1904, appeared at the St. Louis Worlds Fair, and began to try his roping skills on the vaudeville circuits.

==Vaudeville==
File:WillRogers.jpeg thumb 200px Will Rogers, photograph taken before 1900
On a trip to New York City, Rogers was at Madison Square Garden (1890) Madison Square Garden, on April 27, 1905,  when a wild steer broke out of the arena and began to climb into the viewing stands. Rogers roped the steer to the delight of the crowd. The feat got front page attention from the newspapers, giving him valuable publicity and an audience eager to see more. Willie Hammerstein saw his vaudeville act, and signed Rogers to appear on the Victoria Roof—which was literally on a rooftop—with his pony. For the next decade, Rogers estimated he worked for fifty weeks a year at the Roof and at the citys myriad vaudeville theaters.
Rogers later recalled these early years: 
:I got a job on Hammersteins Roof at $140 a week for myself, my horse, and the man who looked after it. I remained on the roof for eight weeks, always getting another two week extension when Willie Hammerstein would say to me after the Monday matinee, youre good for two weeks more... Marty Shea, the booking agent for the Columbia, came to me and asked if I wanted to play American burlesque burlesque. They could use an extra attraction....I told him I would think about it, but Burlesque sounded to me then as something funny." Shea and Sam A. Scribner, the general manager of the Columbia Amusement Company, approached Rogers a few days later. Shea told Scribner Rogers was getting $150 and would take $175. "Whats he carrying?, Scribner asked Shea. Himself, a horse, and a man, answered Shea." Scribner replied, "Give him eight weeks at $250".
In 1908, Rogers married Betty Blake (1879–1944), and the couple had four children: Will Rogers, Jr., Mary Amelia, James Blake, and Fred Stone. Will Jr. became a World War II hero, played his father in two films, and was elected to Congress. Mary became a Broadway theatre Broadway actress, and Jim was a newspaperman and rancher; Fred died of diphtheria at age two.
The family lived in New York, but they spent summers in Oklahoma. In 1911, Rogers bought a {{convert 20 acre ha adj=on lk=on}} ranch near Claremore, Oklahoma, which he intended to use as his retirement home. He paid United States dollar US$500 an acre.
In the fall of 1915, Rogers began to appear in Florenz Ziegfeld, Jr. Florenz Ziegfelds Midnight Frolic. The variety show variety revue began at midnight in the top-floor night club of Ziegfelds New Amsterdam Theatre, and drew many influential—and regular—customers. By this time, Rogers had refined his act. His monologues on the news of the day followed a similar routine every night. He appeared on stage in his cowboy outfit, nonchalantly twirling his lasso, and said, "Well, what shall I talk about? I aint got anything funny to say. All I know is what I read in the papers." He would make jokes about what he had read in that days newspapers. The line "All I know is what I read in the papers" is often incorrectly described as Rogerss most famous punch line, when it was his opening line.

His run at the New Amsterdam ran into 1916, and Rogerss growing popularity led to an engagement on the more famous Ziegfeld Follies. At this stage, Rogerss act was strictly physical, a silent display of daring riding and clever tricks with his lariat. He discovered that audiences identified the cowboy as the archetypical American—doubtless aided by Theodore Roosevelts image as a cowboy. Rogerss cowboy showed an unfettered man free of institutional restraints, with no bureaucrats to order his life. When he came back to the United States and worked in Wild West shows, he slowly began adding the occasional spoken ad lib, such as "Swingin a ropes all right... if your neck aint in it." Audiences responded to his laconic but pointed humor, and were just as fascinated by his frontier Oklahoma twang. By 1916, Rogers was a featured star in Ziegfelds Follies on Broadway, as he moved into satire by transforming the "Ropin Fool" to the "Talkin Fool". At one performance, with President Woodrow Wilson in the audience, Rogers improvised a "roast" of presidential policies that had Wilson, and the entire audience, in stitches and proved his remarkable skill at off-the-cuff, witty commentary on current events. He built the rest of his career around that skill.

A 1922 editorial in The New York Times said that "Will Rogers in the Follies is carrying on the tradition of Aristophanes, and not unworthily."
Rogers branched into silent films too, for Samuel Goldwyns company Goldwyn Pictures. He made his first silent movie, Laughing Bill Hyde (1918), which was filmed in Fort Lee, New Jersey Fort Lee, New Jersey. Many early films were filmed and produced in the New York area in those years. Rogers could make a film, yet easily still rehearse and perform in the Follies. He eventually appeared in most of the Follies, from 1916 to 1925.

==Movies==
{{refimprove section date=August 2017}}
<!--only 1 citation-->
Hollywood discovered Rogers in 1918, as Samuel Goldwyn gave him the title role in Laughing Bill Hyde. A three-year contract with Goldwyn, at triple the Broadway salary, moved Rogers west. He bought a ranch in Pacific Palisades, Los Angeles Pacific Palisades and set up his own production company. While Rogers enjoyed film acting, his appearances in silent movies suffered from the obvious restrictions of silence, as he had gained his fame as a commentator on stage. He wrote many of the intertitle title cards appearing in his films. In 1923, he began a one-year stint for Hal Roach and made 12 pictures. Among the films he made for Roach in 1924 were three directed by Rob Wagner: Two Wagons Both Covered, Going to Congress, and Our Congressman. He made two other feature silents and a travelogue series in 1927. After that, he did not return to the screen until beginning work in the sound film talkies in 1929.

Rogers made 48 silent movies, but with the arrival of sound in 1929, he became a top star in that medium. His first sound film, They Had to See Paris (1929), gave him the chance to exercise his verbal wit. He played a homespun farmer (State Fair) in 1933, an old-fashioned doctor (Dr. Bull) in 1933, a small town banker (David Harum (1934 film) David Harum) in 1934, and a rustic politician (Judge Priest) in 1934. He was also in County Chairman (1935), Steamboat Round the Bend (1935), and In Old Kentucky (1935). His favorite director was John Ford.

Rogers appeared in 21 feature films alongside such noted performers as Lew Ayres, Billie Burke, Richard Cromwell (actor) Richard Cromwell, Jane Darwell, Andy Devine, Janet Gaynor, Rochelle Hudson, Boris Karloff, Myrna Loy, Joel McCrea, Hattie McDaniel, Ray Milland, Maureen OSullivan, ZaSu Pitts, Dick Powell, Bill Robinson Bill "Bojangles" Robinson, Mickey Rooney, and Peggy Wood. He was directed three times by John Ford. He appeared in three films with his friend Stepin Fetchit (aka Lincoln T. Perry): David Harum (1934), Judge Priest (1934) and The County Chairman (1935).
With his voice becoming increasingly familiar to audiences, Rogers essentially played himself in each film, without film makeup, managing to ad-lib and sometimes work in his familiar commentaries on politics. The clean moral tone of his films resulted in various public schools taking their classes to attend special showings during the school day. His most unusual role may have been in the first talking version of Mark Twains novel A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthurs Court. His popularity soared to new heights with films including Young As You Feel, Judge Priest, and Life Begins at 40 (film) Life Begins at 40, with Richard Cromwell and Rochelle Hudson.
{{Clear}}

==Newspapers and magazines==

Rogers demonstrated multiple skills, and was an indefatigable worker. He toured the lecture circuit. The New York Times syndicated his weekly newspaper column from 1922 to 1935.
Going daily in 1926, his short column "Will Rogers Says" reached forty million newspaper readers. He also wrote frequently for the mass-circulation upscale magazine The Saturday Evening Post. Rogers advised Americans to embrace the frontier values of neighborliness and democracy on the domestic front while remaining clear of foreign entanglements. He took a strong, highly popular stand in favor of aviation, including a military air force of the sort his flying buddy General Billy Mitchell advocated.

Rogers began a weekly column, titled "Slipping the Lariat Over", at the end of 1922.
He had already published a book of wisecracks and had begun a steady stream of humor books.
Through the columns for the McNaught Syndicate between 1922 and 1935, as well as his personal appearances and radio broadcasts, he won the loving admiration of the American people, poking jibes in witty ways at the issues of the day and prominent people—often politicians. He wrote from a non-partisan point of view and became a friend of President of the United States presidents and a confidant of the great. Loved for his cool mind and warm heart, he was often considered the successor to such greats as Charles Farrar Browne Artemus Ward and Mark Twain. Rogers was not the first entertainer to use political humor before his audience. Others, such as Broadway comedian Raymond Hitchcock (actor) Raymond Hitchcock and Britains Sir Harry Lauder, preceded him by several years. Bob Hope is the best known political humorist to follow Rogerss example.

==Travel==
File:Rogers-Will-LOC.jpg thumb Will Rogers, photograph by Underwood and Underwood
From about 1925 to 1928, Rogers traveled the length and breadth of the United States in a "lecture tour". (He began his lectures by pointing out that "A humorist entertains, and a lecturer annoys.") During this time he became the first civilian to fly from coast to coast with pilots flying the mail in Airmail#History early air mail flights. The National Press Club (United States) National Press Club dubbed him "Ambassador at Large of the United States". He visited Mexico City, along with Charles Lindbergh, as a guest of U.S. Ambassador Dwight Morrow. Rogers gave numerous after-dinner speeches, became a popular convention speaker, and gave dozens of benefits for victims of floods, droughts, or earthquakes.

Rogers traveled to Asia to perform in 1931, and to Central America Central and South America the following year. In 1934, he made a globe-girdling tour and returned to play the lead in Eugene ONeills stage play Ah, Wilderness!. He had tentatively agreed to go on loan from Fox to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer MGM to star in the 1935 movie version of the play. But, concerned about a fans reaction to the "facts-of-life" talk between his character and the latters son, he declined the role. He and Wiley Post made plans to fly to Alaska that summer.

==Radio==
Radio was the exciting new medium, and Rogers became a star there as well, broadcasting his newspaper pieces. From 1929 to 1935, he made radio broadcasts for the Gulf Oil Company. This weekly Sunday evening show, The Gulf Headliners, ranked among the top radio programs in the country.
Since Rogers easily rambled from one subject to another, reacting to his studio audience, he often lost track of the half-hour time limit in his earliest broadcasts, and was cut off in mid-sentence. To correct this, he brought in a wind-up alarm clock, and its on-air buzzing alerted him to begin wrapping up his comments. By 1935, his show was being announced as "Will Rogers and his Famous Alarm Clock".

==Politics==
File:Seattle Mayor Charles L. Smith with Will Rogers, circa 1935.jpg thumb 250px right Seattle Mayor Charles L. Smith (left) with Will Rogers, circa 1935.

Rogers was a staunch History of the United States Democratic Party Democrat, but he also supported Republican Calvin Coolidge. Democrat Franklin D. Roosevelt was his favorite president and politician. Although he supported Roosevelts New Deal, he could just as easily joke about it:
:Lord, the money we do spend on Government and its not one bit better than the government we got for one-third the money twenty years ago.
Rogers served as a goodwill ambassador to Mexico, and had a brief stint as mayor of Beverly Hills. The California city was incorporated, and thus run by an appointed city manager. The "mayors office" was a ceremonial one: Rogers made more jokes about do-nothing politicians such as himself. During the depths of the Great Depression in the United States Great Depression, angered by Washingtons inability to feed the people, he embarked on a cross country fundraising tour for the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement Red Cross.

=== Presidential campaign, 1928 ===
Rogers thought all campaigning was bunk. To prove the point, he mounted a mock campaign in 1928 for the presidency. His only vehicle was the pages of Life, a weekly humor magazine. Rogers ran as the "bunkless candidate" of the Anti-Bunk Party. His campaign promise was that, if elected, he would resign. Every week, from Memorial Day through Election Day, Rogers caricatured the farcical humors of grave campaign politics. On election day he declared victory and resigned.

{{quote Asked what issues would motivate voters? Prohibition: "Whats on your hip is bound to be on your mind" (July 26).

Asked if there should be presidential debates? Yes: "Joint debate—in any joint you name" (August 9).

How about appeals to the common man? Easy: "You cant make any commoner appeal than I can" (August 16).

What does the farmer need? Obvious: "He needs a punch in the jaw if he believes that either of the parties cares a damn about him after the election" (August 23).

Can voters be fooled? Darn tootin: "Of all the bunk handed out during a campaign the biggest one of all is to try and compliment the knowledge of the voter" (September 21).

What about a candidates image? Ballyhoo: "I hope there is some sane people who will appreciate dignity and not showmanship in their choice for the presidency" (October 5).

What of ugly campaign rumors? Dont worry: "The things they whisper arent as bad as what they say out loud" (October 12).
}}

==Philosophy and style==
After Rogers gained recognition as a humorist-philosopher in vaudeville, he gained a national audience in acting and literary careers from 1915 to 1935. In these years, Rogers increasingly expressed the views of the "common man" in America. He downplayed academic credentials, noting, "Everybody is ignorant, only on different subjects."
Americans of all walks admired his individualism, his appreciation for democratic ideas, and his liberal philosophies on most issues. Moreover, Rogers extolled hard work in order to succeed, and such expressions affirmed American theories about how to realize individual success. Rogers symbolized the self-made man, the common man, who believed in America, in progress, and in the American Dream of upward mobility.  His humor never offended even those who were the targets of it.
In the 1920s, the United States was happy and prosperous in various ways
(leading to the nickname Roaring Twenties), but it also suffered from rapid change and social tensions. Some people were disenchanted by, and alienated from, the outside world.
