othername = Bill Shatner
  education = Westhill High School (Montreal) Westhill High School
  alma_mater = McGill University
  occupation = Actor, author, producer, director
  yearsactive = 1951–present
  television = {{plain list 
* Star Trek: The Original Series Star Trek
* T. J. Hooker
* 3rd Rock from the Sun
* Boston Legal
* Priceline.com Priceline negotiator
* $h*! My Dad Says
* Weird or What?
* Shatners Raw Nerve
* Rescue 911
* Better Late Than Never (TV series) Better Late Than Never
* The Indian Detective
}}
  spouse = {{plain list 
* {{marriage Gloria Rand
<br/>
1956 1969 end=divorced}}
* {{marriage Marcy Lafferty
<br/>
1973 1996 end=divorced}}
* {{marriage Nerine Kidd
<br/>
1997 1999 end=died}}
* {{marriage Elizabeth Martin
<br/>
2001}}
}}
  children = 3
  awards = {{plain list 
* Peoples Choice Award
* Emmy Award
* Golden Globe Award
}}
  website = [http://www.williamshatner.com/ williamshatner.com]
  Label = 
}}

William Shatner, {{Post-nominals country=CAN size=100% OC}} (born March 22, 1931) is a Canadians Canadian actor, author, producer, and director. In his seven decades of television, Shatner became a cultural icon for his portrayal of James T. Kirk, captain of the USS Enterprise (NCC-1701) USS Enterprise, in the Star Trek franchise.
He has written a series of books chronicling his experiences playing Captain Kirk and being a part of Star Trek, and has co-written several novels set in the Star Trek universe. He has written a series of science fiction novels called TekWar that were adapted for television.

Shatner also played the eponymous veteran police sergeant in T.J. Hooker (1982–86) and hosted the reality-based television series Rescue 911 (1989–96), which won a Peoples Choice Awards Peoples Choice Award for the Favorite New TV Dramatic Series. Shatner also appeared in seasons 4 and 5 of the NBC series 3rd Rock from the Sun as the "Big Giant Head" that the alien characters reported to. From 2004 until 2008, he starred as attorney Denny Crane in the final season of the legal drama The Practice and its spinoff series Boston Legal, a role that earned him two Emmy Awards. As of December 2017, he is in his second season of the comical NBC real-life travelogue with other male companions "of a certain age" in Better Late Than Never (TV series) Better Late Than Never.

Shatner has also worked as a musician; an author; screenwriter and director; Celebrity branding celebrity pitchman; and a passionate owner, trader, breeder, rider, and aficionado of horses.

==Early life==
Shatner was born in the Notre-Dame-de-Grâce neighbourhood of Montréal, Québec, Canada, to a Conservative Judaism Conservative Jewish household.
His parents are Anne (née Garmaise) and Joseph Shatner, a clothing manufacturer.
He has two sisters, Joy and Farla.
His paternal grandfather, Wolf Schattner, Anglicisation anglicized the family name to "Shatner".
All of Shatners four grandparents were Jewish immigrants (from Austria-Hungary, Ukraine, and Lithuania).
Shatner attended two schools in Notre-Dame-de-Grâce, Willingdon Elementary School
and West Hill High School,
and is an alumnus of the Montreal Childrens Theatre#Notable alumni Montreal Childrens Theatre.
He studied Economics at the McGill University Desautels Faculty of Management Faculty of Management in Montreal, Canada, where he graduated with a Bachelor of Commerce degree.
In June 2011, McGill University awarded him an honorary Doctor of Letters Doctorate of Letters.
Shatner was also awarded an honorary Doctor of Letters Doctorate of Letters from New England Institute of Technology in May 2018.
==Acting career==

===Early stage, film, and television work===
After graduating from McGill University in 1952, Shatner became the business manager for the Mountain Playhouse in Montreal before joining the Canadian National Repertory Theatre in Ottawa, where he trained as a classical William Shakespeare Shakespearean actor.
Shatner began performing at the Stratford Shakespeare Festival in Stratford, Ontario, beginning in 1954. He played a range of roles at the Stratford Festival in productions that included a minor role in the opening scene of a renowned and nationally televised production of Sophocles Oedipus Rex directed by Tyrone Guthrie, Shakespeares Henry V (play) Henry V, and Christopher Marlowe Marlowes Tamburlaine (play) Tamburlaine the Great, in which Shatner made his Broadway debut in 1956.
File:William Shatner - 1958.jpg thumb left Shatner publicity photo, 1958
In 1954, he was cast as Ranger Bob on Howdy Doody#The Canadian Howdy Doody Show The Canadian Howdy Doody Show.
Shatner was an understudy to Christopher Plummer; the two would later appear as adversaries in Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country.

His film debut was in the Canadian film Butlers Night Off (1951). His first feature role came in the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer MGM film The Brothers Karamazov (1958 film) The Brothers Karamazov (1958) with Yul Brynner, in which he starred as the youngest of the Karamazov brothers, Alexei. In December 1958, he appeared opposite Ralph Bellamy, playing Roman tax collectors in Bethlehem on the day of Jesus birth in a vignette of a Hallmark Hall of Fame live television production entitled The Christmas Tree directed by Kirk Browning, which featured in other vignettes such performers as Jessica Tandy, Margaret Hamilton (actress) Margaret Hamilton, Bernadette Peters, Richard Thomas (actor) Richard Thomas, Cyril Ritchard, and Carol Channing. Shatner had a leading role in an Alfred Hitchcock Presents third-season (1957–58) episode titled "The Glass Eye," one of his first appearances on American television.

File:Nero-Wolfe-CBS-1959.jpg right thumb Shatner (Archie Goodwin (character) Archie Goodwin, left) and Kurt Kasznar (Nero Wolfe) in the aborted 1959 CBS television series Nero Wolfe#Nero Wolfe (CBS) Nero Wolfe
<!-- FAIR USE of NW-CBS-1959.jpg: see image, description, page at http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:NW-CBS-1959.jpg for rationale -->
In 1959, he received good reviews when he played the role of Lomax in the Broadway production of The World of Suzie Wong. In March 1959, while performing on stage in Suzie Wong, Shatner was also playing detective Archie Goodwin (character) Archie Goodwin in what would have been televisions first Nero Wolfe#Nero Wolfe (CBS) Nero Wolfe series, had it not been aborted by CBS after shooting a pilot and a few episodes.
He appeared twice as Wayne Gorham in NBCs Outlaws (1960 TV series) Outlaws (1960) Western series with Barton MacLane, and then in another Alfred Hitchcock Presents 5th-season episode titled "Mother, May I Go Out to Swim?" In 1961, he starred in the Broadway play A Shot in the Dark (play) A Shot in the Dark with Julie Harris (American actress) Julie Harris and directed by Harold Clurman. Walter Matthau (who won a Tony Award for his performance) and Gene Saks were also featured in this play. Shatner featured in two episodes of the NBC television series Thriller (U.S. TV series) Thriller ("The Grim Reaper" and "The Hungry Glass") and the film The Explosive Generation (1961).

Guthrie had called the young Shatner the Stratford Festivals most promising actor, and he was seen as a peer to contemporaries like Steve McQueen, Paul Newman, and Robert Redford. Shatner was not as successful as the others, however, and during the 1960s he "became a working actor who showed up on time, knew his lines, worked cheap and always answered his phone." His motto was "Work equals work," but Shatners willingness to take any role, no matter how "forgettable," likely hurt his career.{{r jordan20100903}} He took the lead role in Roger Cormans movie The Intruder (1962 film) The Intruder (1962) and received very good reviews for his significant role in the Stanley Kramer film Judgment at Nuremberg (1961) and two episodes, "Nick of Time (The Twilight Zone) Nick of Time" and "Nightmare at 20,000 Feet," of the science fiction anthology series The Twilight Zone (1959 TV series) The Twilight Zone. In the 1963–64 season, he appeared in an episode of the American Broadcasting Company ABC series Channing (TV series) Channing.  In 1963, he starred in the Family Theater production called "The Soldier" and received credits in other programs of The Psalms series. That same year, he guest-starred in Route 66 (TV series) Route 66, in the episode "Build Your Houses with Their Backs to the Sea."

In 1964, Shatner guest-starred in Season 2, Episode 2 (titled "Cold Hands, Warm Heart") of the ABC sci-fi anthology series The Outer Limits (1963 TV series) The Outer Limits. That appearance may have been considered prescient in relation to his iconic, career-defining role of Captain James T. Kirk on National Broadcasting Company NBCs series Star Trek (1966 TV series) Star Trek two years later. He played an astronaut returning from a mission who was discussing a planned mission to Mars called "Project Vulcan"; on Star Trek, Kirks first officer and best friend, Mr. Spock, was half-Vulcan and was born and raised on that planet. Also that year, he appeared in an episode of the CBS drama The Reporter (TV series) The Reporter ("He Stuck in His Thumb") and co-starred with Laurence Harvey, Claire Bloom, Newman, and Edward G. Robinson in the Western feature film The Outrage.

In 1965, Shatner guest-starred in Twelve OClock High (TV series) 12 OClock High as Major Curt Brown in the segment "I Am the Enemy" and in The Man from U.N.C.L.E. in an episode that also featured Leonard Nimoy, with whom Shatner would soon be paired in Star Trek. He also starred in the critically acclaimed drama For the People in 1965, as an District attorney assistant district attorney, co-starring with Jessica Walter. The program lasted only 13 episodes. Shatner starred in the 1966 Gothic fiction gothic horror film Incubus (1966 film) Incubus (Esperanto: Inkubo,) the second feature-length movie ever made with all dialogue spoken in Esperanto. He also starred in an episode of Gunsmoke in 1966 as the character Fred Bateman. He appeared as attorney-turned-counterfeiter Brett Skyler in a 1966 episode of The Big Valley, "Time To Kill." In 1967, he starred in the little known film White Comanche starring as two characters: Johnny Moon and his twin brother Notah.

===Star Trek===
File:Star Trek William Shatner.JPG thumb Shatner as Capt. Kirk in Star Trek (1966–69)
{{Main article Star Trek: The Original Series}}
Shatner was cast as Captain James T. Kirk for the second pilot of Star Trek, titled "Where No Man Has Gone Before". He was then contracted to play Kirk for the Star Trek series and held the role from 1966 to 1969. During its original run on NBC, the series pulled in only modest ratings and was cancelled after three seasons. In his role as Kirk, Shatner famously kissed actress Nichelle Nichols (Lt. Uhura) in the November 22, 1968, Star Trek episode, "Platos Stepchildren". The episode is popularly cited as the first example of a kiss between a white man and a black woman on scripted television in the United States.
In 1973, he returned to the role of Captain Kirk, albeit only in voice, in the Star Trek: The Animated Series animated Star Trek series.

===1970s===
After the cancellation of Star Trek in early 1969, Shatner experienced difficulty in finding work in the early 1970s, having become somewhat typecast from his role as Kirk. With very little money and few acting prospects, Shatner lost his home and lived in a truck bed camper in the San Fernando Valley until small roles turned into higher-paying jobs. Shatner refers to this part of his life as "that period", a humbling time during which he would take any odd job, including small party appearances, to support his family.

Shatner again appeared in ":wikt:schlock schlock" films, such as Cormans Big Bad Mama (1974) and the horror film The Devils Rain (1975),{{r jordan20100903}} Kingdom of the Spiders (1977), and the TV movie The Horror at 37,000 Feet. Shatner received good reviews as the lead prosecutor in a 1971 PBS (TV network) PBS adaptation of Saul Levitts play The Andersonville Trial. Other television appearances included a starring role in the western-themed secret agent series Barbary Coast (TV series) Barbary Coast during 1975 and 1976, and guest roles on many 1970s series such as The Six Million Dollar Man, Columbo, The Rookies, Kung Fu (TV series) Kung Fu, Ironside (TV series) Ironside and Mission: Impossible. A martial arts enthusiast, Shatner studied American Kenpo karate under black belt Tom Bleecker (who trained under the founder of American Kenpo Ed Parker).{{citation needed date=October 2014}} Shatner was an occasional celebrity guest on Pyramid (game show) The $10,000 Pyramid and The $20,000 Pyramid in the 1970s, once appearing opposite Leonard Nimoy in a week-long match-up billed as "Kirk vs. Spock". In a notable 1977 appearance he gave an illegal clue ("the blessed" for Things That Are Blessed; he intended to say "the Virgin Mary") at the top of the pyramid ($200) which deprived the contestant of a big money win, and reacted strongly, throwing his chair out of the Winners Circle.
Other shows included The Hollywood Squares, Celebrity Bowling,{{r jordan20100903}} Beat the Clock, Tattletales, Mike Stokeys Pantomime Quiz#Revivals Stump the Stars and Match Game. Richard Dawson, during an Archive of American Television interview, mentioned that Shatner was Mark Goodsons first choice to host the Family Feud pilot in 1976, but gave the job to Dawson instead.
He did a number of television commercials for Ontario-based Loblaws and British Columbia-based SuperValu (Canada) SuperValu supermarket chains in the 1970s,
and finished the Loblaws ad spots by saying, "At Loblaws, more than the price is right. But, by Gosh, the price is right."
He also did a number of television commercials for General Motors, endorsing the Oldsmobile brand, and Unilever Promise margarine.

===Kirk returns and T. J. Hooker===
After its cancellation, Star Trek engendered a cult following during the 1970s from syndicated reruns, and Captain Kirk became a cultural icon.{{r jordan20100903}} Shatner began appearing at Science fiction convention Star Trek conventions organized by Star Trek fandom Trekkies.
In the mid-1970s, Paramount Pictures Paramount began pre-production for a revised Star Trek television series, tentatively titled Star Trek: Phase II. However, the phenomenal success of Star Wars (film) Star Wars (1977) led the studio to instead consider developing a Star Trek motion picture. Shatner and the other original Star Trek cast members returned to their roles when Paramount produced Star Trek: The Motion Picture, released in 1979. He played Kirk in the next six Star Trek films, ending with the characters death in Star Trek Generations (1994). Some later appearances in the role are in the movie sequences of the video game Star Trek: Starfleet Academy (video game) Starfleet Academy (1997), briefly for a Lap giraffe DirecTV advertisement using footage from Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country running from late summer 2006, and the 85th Academy Awards 2013 Academy Awards, in which he reprised the role for a comedic interlude with host Seth MacFarlane.

Although Trekkies resurrected Star Trek after cancellation, in a 1986 Saturday Night Live sketch about a Star Trek convention, Shatner advised a room full of fans to "get a life".
{{r jordan20100903}} The much-discussed sketch accurately portrayed his feelings about Trekkies, which the actor had previously discussed in interviews.{{r jenkins1992}} Shatner had been their unwilling subject of adoration for years; as early as April 1968, a group attempted to rip his clothes off as the actor left GE Building 30 Rockefeller Plaza,
and he stopped attending conventions for more than a decade during the 1970s and 1980s.
Shatner also appeared in the film Free Enterprise (film) Free Enterprise in 1998, in which he played himself and tried to dispel the Kirk image of himself from the view of the films two lead characters. He also has found an outlet in spoofing the cavalier, almost superhuman, persona of Captain Kirk in films such as Airplane II: The Sequel (1982) and National Lampoon, Incorporated National Lampoons Loaded Weapon 1 (1993). In 1994, he starred as the murderer in the Columbo episode "List of Columbo episodes#Season 10 and specials Butterfly in Shades of Grey".

Besides the Star Trek films, Shatner landed a starring role on television as the titular police officer T. J. Hooker, which ran from 1982 to 1986. He then hosted the popular dramatic re-enactment series Rescue 911 from 1989 to 1996. During the 1980s Shatner also began directing film and television, directing numerous episodes of T. J. Hooker and the feature film Star Trek V: The Final Frontier.

===Subsequent acting and media career===
Shatner has enjoyed success with a series of science fiction novels published under his name, though most are widely believed to have been written by uncredited co-writers such as William Thomas Quick William T. Quick and Ron Goulart.
The first, published in 1989, was TekWar, which Shatner claims he developed initially as a screenplay during a Writers Guild strike that delayed production of Star Trek V: The Final Frontier.
The series of books led to four TekWar television movies, in which Shatner played the role of Walter Bascom, the lead characters boss. A short-lived TekWar (TV series) television series followed, airing on USA Network and Syfy Sci-Fi Channel in the United States and CTV Television Network CTV in Canada, in which Shatner made several appearances in the Bascom role and directed some of the episodes.

In 1995, a first-person shooter game named William Shatners TekWar was released. He also played as a narrator in the 1995 American documentary film Trinity and Beyond Trinity and Beyond: The Atomic Bomb Movie directed by Peter Kuran. He narrated a television miniseries shot in New Zealand A Twist in the Tale (1998 TV series) A Twist in the Tale (1998). In the television series 3rd Rock from the Sun, Shatner appeared in several 1999–2000 episodes as the "Big Giant Head", a high-ranking officer from the same alien planet as the Solomon family who becomes a womanizing party-animal on Earth. The role earned Shatner an Emmy Award nomination.
Shatner has appeared in advertisements for many companies and products. In the early 1980s he appeared in print and television ads endorsing the Commodore VIC-20 home computer. Since the late 1990s he has done a series of commercials for the travel web site priceline.com, in which Shatner plays a pompous, fictionalized version of himself.{{r jordan20100903}}
Although he received Option (finance) stock options for the commercials, Shatner says that reports that they are now worth hundreds of millions of dollars are exaggerated.
Shatner was also the CEO of the Toronto, Ontario-based C.O.R.E. C.O.R.E. Digital Pictures, a special effects studio that operated from 1994 to 2010.
In May 1999, Simon &amp; Schuster published Shatners book, Get a Life!, which details his experiences with Star Trek fandom, anecdotes from Trek conventions, and his interviews with dedicated fans, in particular those who found deeper meaning in the franchise.
Shatner co-starred in the movie Miss Congeniality (film) Miss Congeniality (2000) as Stan Fields, playing the role of co-host of the Miss United States Pageant alongside future Boston Legal co-star Candice Bergen. He reprised the role in the sequel Miss Congeniality 2: Armed and Fabulous (2004), in which Stan Fields was kidnapped in Las Vegas along with the winner of the pageant of the previous year. (Shatner hosted the Miss USA Pageant in 2001 as a real presenter in Gary, Indiana.) In the live-action/animated film Osmosis Jones (2001), he voiced Mayor Phlegmming, the self-centered head of the "City of Frank", a community comprising all the cells and microorganisms of a mans body, who is constantly preoccupied with his reelection and his own convenience, even to the detriment of his "city" and constituents. In 2003, Shatner appeared in Brad Paisleys "Celebrity (Brad Paisley song) Celebrity" and "Online (song) Online" music videos along with Little Jimmy Dickens, Jason Alexander, and Trista Rehn. Shatner also had a supporting role in the comedy DodgeBall: A True Underdog Story (2004), which starred Ben Stiller and Vince Vaughn. Star Trek: Enterprise producer Manny Coto stated in Star Trek Communicator{{s}} October 2004 issue that he was preparing a three-episode story arc for Shatner. Shortly thereafter, Enterprise was cancelled.

After David E. Kelley saw Shatners commercials,{{r jordan20100903}} he brought Shatner on to the final season of the legal drama The Practice. His Emmy Award-winning role, the eccentric but highly capable attorney Denny Crane, was essentially "William Shatner the man...playing William Shatner the character playing the character Denny Crane, who was playing the character William Shatner."{{r jordan20100903}} Shatner took the Crane role to Boston Legal, and won a Golden Globe, an Emmy in 2005, and was nominated again in 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009 for his work. With the 2005 Emmy win, Shatner became one of the few actors (along with co-star James Spader as Alan Shore) to win an Emmy Award while playing the same character in two different series. Even rarer, Shatner and Spader each won a second consecutive Emmy while playing the same character in two different series. Shatner remained with the series until its end in 2008.

Shatner made several guest appearances on The Tonight Show with Conan OBrien, including cameos reciting Resignation of Sarah Palin Sarah Palins resignation speech, Twitter posts, and Going Rogue: An American Life autobiography. (Palin herself made a cameo on the show in December 2009, reciting passages from Shatners autobiography, Up Til Now in front of Shatner himself.) He has also recited Twitter posts by Levi Johnston, father of Palins grandson. He also appears in the opening graphics of the occasional feature "In the Year 2000 In the Year 3000", with his disembodied head floating through space, announcing, "And so we take a cosmic ride into that new millennium; that far off reality that is the year 3000", followed by the tag line, "Its the future, man." He also played the voice of Ozzie the opossum in DreamWorks 2006 feature Over the Hedge (film) Over the Hedge.

File:Shatner Star.JPG thumb left Shatners star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame
In January 2007, Shatner launched a series of daily vlogs on his life called ShatnerVision
on the LiveVideo.com website. In 2008, he launched his video blogs on YouTube in a project renamed "The Shatner Project."
Shatner also starred as the voice of Don Salmonella Gavone on the 2009 YouTube animated series The Gavones.
Shatner was not "offered or suggested" a role in the 2009 film Star Trek (film) Star Trek.
Director J. J. Abrams said in July 2007 that the production was "desperately trying to figure out a way to put him in" but that to "shove him in...would be a disaster",
an opinion echoed by Shatner in several interviews. At a convention held in 2010, Shatner commented on the film by saying "Ive seen that wonderful film." Shatner had invented his own idea about the beginning of Star Trek with his 2007 novel, Star Trek: Academy — Collision Course.
His autobiography Up Till Now Up Till Now: The Autobiography was released in 2008. He was assisted in writing it by David Fisher (writer) David Fisher. Shatner has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame (for television work) at 6901 Hollywood Boulevard. He also has a star on the Canadas Walk of Fame. Shatner was the first Canadian actor to star in three successful television series on three different major networks (NBC, CBS, and ABC). He also starred in the CBS sitcom $h*! My Dad Says $#*! My Dad Says, which is based on the Twitter feed Shit My Dad Says created by Justin Halpern. The series premiered in late 2010 and was canceled May 2011.
Shatner is also the host of the interview show Shatners Raw Nerve on The Biography Channel, and the Discovery Channel television series Weird or What?
Also in 2011, Shatner appeared in the episode of Psych titled, "In For a Penny" on the USA Network as the estranged father of Junior Detective Juliet OHara (Maggie Lawson). He has signed on to continue the role into the 2012 season.

In 2011, Shatner starred in The Captains (film) The Captains, a feature-length documentary which he also wrote and directed. The film follows Shatner as he interviews the other actors who have portrayed starship captains within the Star Trek franchise. Shatners interviewees included Patrick Stewart, Avery Brooks, Kate Mulgrew, Scott Bakula, and Chris Pine. In the film, Shatner also interviews Christopher Plummer, who is an old friend and colleague from Shatners days with the Stratford Shakespeare Festival.
File:William Shatner star on Walk of Fame.jpg thumb Shatners star on Canadas Walk of Fame
In February 2012, Shatner performed in a new one-man show on Broadway, called Shatners World: We Just Live in It. After a three-week run at the Music Box Theatre, the show toured throughout the United States.
In May 2012, Shatner was the guest presenter on the British satire satirical television quiz show Have I Got News for You, during which he coined the portmanteau "pensioneer", combining the words "pensioner" and "pioneer".
On July 28, 2012, the premium cable TV channel Epix (TV channel) Epix premiered Get a Life!, a documentary on Star Trek fandom starring Shatner that takes its title from his infamous Saturday Night Live line and his 1999 book on the topic.
On September 25, 2012, Shatner portrayed the Umpire (baseball) home plate umpire in the music video "At Fenway", which was written and recorded by crooner Brian Evans (singer) Brian Evans.
On April 24, 2014 he performed for one night only an autobiographical one-man show on Broadway, which was later broadcast in over 700 theaters across Canada, Australia, and the United States. A large portion of the revenue went to charity.
In 2015, he played Mark Twain in an episode of the Canadian historical crime drama series Murdoch Mysteries.
Also in 2015, he played Croatoan—main character Audrey Parkers interdimensional, dangerous father—in the last episodes of the fifth and final season of SyFy channels fantasy series Haven (TV series) Haven.
Premiering August 23, 2016, Shatner appeared in the NBC reality miniseries Better Late Than Never (TV series) Better Late Than Never, which documented the adventures of Shatner and three other aging celebrities (Henry Winkler, Terry Bradshaw and George Foreman) as they travel to Japan, South Korea and Southeast Asia.
That same year, he cofounded the comic-book company Shatner Singularity, whose titles include the graphic novel Stan Lees God Woke by Stan Lee and Fabian Nicieza.
That work won the 2017 Independent Publisher Book Awards Outstanding Books of the Year Independent Voice Award.
Better Late Than Never was renewed for a second season on NBC with a "preview" episode on December 11, 2017, and an "official" season premiere on New Years Day, January 1, 2018.

In 2017, Shatner appeared in the animated television series My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic as the voice of Grand Pear, the estranged maternal grandfather of Applejack and her siblings, in the seventh season episode "The Perfect Pear". Shatner noted himself as a "My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic fandom brony", a member of the Friendship Is Magic fan base; he confirmed his involvement in the series via his Twitter account following a post where he recited one of the shows catch phrases.
==Music and spoken-word work==
{{Main article William Shatners musical career}}
Shatner began his musical career with the spoken-word 1968 album The Transformed Man,
delivering exaggerated, interpretive recitations of "Mr. Tambourine Man" and "Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds." He performed a reading of the Elton John song "Rocket Man (song) Rocket Man" during the 1978 Science Fiction Film Awards that has been widely parodied. Ben Folds, who has worked with him several times, produced and co-wrote Shatners well-received second studio album, Has Been, in 2004. His third studio album, Seeking Major Tom, was released on October 11, 2011. The fourth, Ponder the Mystery, was released in October 2013 on Cleopatra Records, produced and composed by musician Billy Sherwood (member of Yes (band) Yes). Shatner also has done a concert tour with Circa (band) CIRCA:, which includes an ex and current member of Yes, Tony Kaye (musician) Tony Kaye and Billy Sherwood.

===Space Shuttle Discovery===
Shatner recorded a wake-up call that was played for the crew of STS-133 in the Space Shuttle Discovery Space Shuttle Discovery on March 7, 2011, its final day docked to the International Space Station. Backed by the Theme from Star Trek musical theme from Star Trek, it featured a voice-over based on his spoken introduction from the series opening credits: "Space, the final frontier. These have been the voyages of the Space Shuttle Discovery. Her 30-year mission: To seek out new science. To build new outposts. To bring nations together on the final frontier. To boldly go, and do, what no spacecraft has done before."
=== Discography ===
*The Transformed Man (1968) - Decca Records
*William Shatner Live (1977) – live double album - Lemli Records	
*William Shatner Live Captain of the Starship - William Shatner Live! (1978) – live double album - Imperial House (This is the William Shatner Live album rereleased under a different title with different cover artwork).
*Spaced Out: The Very Best of Leonard Nimoy &amp; William Shatner (1996) – compilation album -Universal Records (defunct record label) Universal (Includes 7 tracks from The Transformed Man + 17 tracks by Leonard Nimoy)
*Has Been (2004) - Shout! Factory
*Exodus: An Oratorio in Three Parts (2008) - JMG/Jewish Music 
*Seeking Major Tom (2011) - Cleopatra Records
*Ponder the Mystery (2013) - Cleopatra Records

==Personal life==
File:BrentSpinerWilliamShatnerLevarBurtonJuly2010.jpg thumb right Shatner with Brent Spiner and LeVar Burton in July 2010
Shatner dislikes watching himself perform, and says that he has never watched any Star Trek or Boston Legal television episodes nor any of the Star Trek movies except while editing Star Trek V: The Final Frontier which he directed,
although his book Star Trek Memories makes reference to his having re-watched episodes of Star Trek.
{{rp 201}}

===Family===
Shatner has been married four times. His first marriage, to Gloria Rand (Name at birth née Rabinowitz),
produced three daughters: Leslie (b. 1958), Lisabeth (b. 1960), and Melanie Shatner Melanie (b. 1964). Rand was a Canadian actress.
Rand and Shatner married on August 12, 1956.
Shatner left Rand while he was acting in Star Trek: The Original Series, after which she divorced him in March 1969.
The divorce was finalized in 1969.
Shatners second marriage was to Marcy Lafferty (daughter of producer Perry Lafferty) and lasted from 1973 to 1996.

His third marriage was to Nerine Kidd Shatner, from 1997 until her death in 1999. On August 9, 1999, Shatner returned home around 10 p.m. to discover Nerines body at the bottom of their backyard swimming pool. She was 40 years old. An autopsy detected alcohol and Diazepam Valium (diazepam) in her blood, but the coroner ruled the cause of death as an accidental drowning. The Los Angeles Police Department LAPD ruled out foul play, and the case was closed.

Speaking to the press shortly after his wifes death, a clearly shaken and emotional Shatner said that she "meant everything" to him, and called her his "beautiful soulmate".
Shatner urged the public to support Friendly House, a nonprofit organization that helps women re-establish themselves in the community after suffering from alcoholism and drug addiction.
He later told Larry King in an interview that "... my wife, whom I loved dearly, and who loved me, was suffering with a disease that we dont like to talk about: alcoholism. And she met a tragic ending because of it."
In his 2008 book Up Till Now: The Autobiography, Shatner discusses how Leonard Nimoy helped take Nerine to treatment for her alcoholism. Shatner writes in an excerpt from his book:
{{quote Leonard Nimoys personal experience of alcoholism now came to play a central role in my life and it helped us bond together in a way I never could have imagined in the early days of Star Trek. After Nerine [Kidd] and I had been to dinner with Leonard and Susan Nimoy one evening, Leonard called and said: "Bill, you know shes an alcoholic?" I said I did. I married Nerine in 1997, against the advice of many and my own good sense. But I thought she would give up alcohol for me. We had a celebration in Pasadena, and Leonard was my best man. I woke up about eight oclock the next morning and Nerine was drunk. She was in rehab for 30 days three different times. Twice she almost drank herself to death. Leonard took Nerine to Alcoholics Anonymous meetings, but she did not want to quit. }}

In 2000, a Reuters story reported that Shatner was planning to write and direct The Shiva (Judaism) Shiva Club, a dark comedy about the grieving process inspired by his wifes death.
Shatners 2004 album Has Been included a spoken-word piece titled "What Have You Done" that describes his anguish upon discovering his wifes body in the pool.

Since 2001, Shatner has been married to Elizabeth Anderson Martin. In 2004, she co-wrote the song "Together" on Shatners album Has Been.
===Relationships with other actors===
Shatner first appeared on screen with Leonard Nimoy in 1964, when both actors guest-starred in an episode of The Man from U.N.C.L.E. entitled "The Project Strigas Affair." However, Shatner states in his autobiography that he does not recall meeting Nimoy at that time.{{fact date=July 2017}} As co-stars on Star Trek, they interacted socially both on and off the set. After Star Trek{{s}} cancellation in 1969, Shatner and Nimoy reunited in the production of Star Trek: The Animated Series, as well as The $20,000 Pyramid, where "Kirk vs. Spock" appeared on two different tables. Nimoy also guest-starred on T. J. Hooker, a show in which Shatner played the title role.

Shatners bereavement following the 1999 death of his third wife, Nerine, served to strengthen his friendship with Nimoy. Nimoy also appeared alongside Shatner at the TV Land Awards (hosted by John Ritter). Nimoy summarized his four-decade friendship with Shatner by remarking, "Bills energy was good for my performance, cause Spock could be the cool individual, our chemistry was successful, right from the start."

Nimoy spoke about their mutual rivalry during the Star Trek years:{{citation needed date=February 2018}}
{{quote   Very competitive, sibling rivalry up to here. After the show had been on the air a few weeks and they started getting so much mail for Spock, then the dictum came down from NBC: "Give us more of that guy, they love that guy, you know?" Well, that can be ... that can be a problem for the leading man who was hired as the star of the show; and suddenly, heres this guy with ears – "Whats this, you know?"   Leonard Nimoy}}

On an episode of the A&amp;E (TV channel) A&amp;E series Biography (TV series) Biography, where it was also divulged that Nimoy was Shatners best man at his wedding with his fourth wife Elisabeth, Nimoy remarked, "Bill Shatner hogging the stage? No. Not the Bill Shatner I know." When Nimoy died in 2015, Shatner stated "I loved him like a brother. We will all miss his humor, his talent, and his capacity to love." Although Shatner was unable to attend Nimoys funeral due to other commitments, his daughters attended in his place, and Shatner created his own online memorial for Nimoy.

Shatner has been a friend of actress Heather Locklear since 1982, when she began co-starring with him on T. J. Hooker. As she was also appearing in a semi-regular role in another Aaron Spelling production, Dynasty (1981 TV series) Dynasty, Locklear was asked by Entertainment Tonight whether this schedule was difficult. She replied "Id get really nervous and want to be prepared" for Shatner and for the experienced cast of Dynasty. After T.J. Hooker ended, Shatner helped Locklear get other roles. Locklear supported a grieving Shatner in 1999 when he was mourning the death of his wife Nerine. In 2005, Locklear appeared in two episodes of Shatners Boston Legal as Kelly Nolan, a woman being tried for killing her much older, wealthy husband. Shatners character is attracted to Nolan and tries to insert himself into her defense.{{Clarify date=November 2014}} Locklear was asked how she came to appear on Boston Legal. She explained "I love the show, its my favorite show; and I sorta kind of said, Shouldnt I be William Shatners illegitimate daughter, or his love interest?"

{{quote box align=left width=30% quote=I was a lot more worried about working with Walter Koenig and Jimmy Doohan, two men who have made it clear on any number of occasions that my name is generally near the top of their shit lists. salign=right source=—Shatner, on having to work again with two of his Star Trek co-stars in the 1994 movie, Star Trek Generations
}}

For years, Shatner was accused by some of his Star Trek co-stars of being difficult to work with, particularly by George Takei, Walter Koenig and James Doohan, the latter two of whom Shatner acknowledges in his autobiography Star Trek Movie Memories. In the 2004 Star Trek DVD sets, Shatner seemed to have made up with Takei, but their differences continue to resurface.
In the 1990s, Shatner made numerous attempts to reconcile with Doohan, but was unsuccessful for some time, Doohan being the only former Star Trek co-star refusing to be interviewed by Shatner for his 1993 memoir Star Trek Memories and its 1994 follow-up, Star Trek Movie Memories. However, an Associated Press article published at the time of Doohans final convention appearance in late August 2004 stated that Doohan, already suffering from severe health problems, had forgiven Shatner and they had mended their relationship. At a convention directly preceding Doohans last one, Sky Conway, the conventions head, stated, "At our show: The Great Bird of the Galaxy in El Paso Texas in November 2003, a celebration of Gene Roddenberry and Star Trek, Bill and Jimmy went on stage together. Behind the scenes and before they went on stage, they hugged each other, apologized and expressed their love and admiration for each other. Bill specifically asked me to get them together so he could make amends and clear the air between the two of them before it was too late."
===Health problems===
Shatner suffers from tinnitus, which he has speculated might be the result of a pyrotechnics pyrotechnical accident on set while shooting the Star Trek episode "Arena (Star Trek: The Original Series) Arena" – though he did not begin to suffer symptoms until the early 1990s, more than twenty years after the incident. Shatner is involved in the American Tinnitus Association. His treatment for this condition involved wearing a small electronic device that generated a low-level, broadband sound (white noise) that "helped his brain put the tinnitus in the background" – a process known as habituation.
===Hobbies and charity work===
File:William Shatner Riding.jpg thumb upright Shatner on horseback, wearing saddle seat attire at a horse show in 2011
In 2006, Shatner sold his kidney stone for US$25,000 to GoldenPalace.com.
In an appearance on The View (U.S. TV series) The View on May 16, 2006, Shatner said the $25,000 and an additional $20,000 raised from the cast and crew of Boston Legal paid for the building of a house by Habitat for Humanity.

In his spare time, Shatner enjoys breeding and Horse show showing American Saddlebreds{{r jordan20100903}} and American Quarter Horse Quarter Horses.
Shatner rode one of his own horses, a mare named Great Belles of Fire, in Star Trek Generations.
Shatner has a {{convert 360 acre ha adj=on}} farm near Versailles, Kentucky, named Belle Reve Farm (from the French beau rêve, "Beautiful Dream"—Belle Reve was the name of Blanche Dubois and her sister Stellas family home in A Streetcar Named Desire), where he raises American Saddlebreds. Three of his notable horses include Call Me Ringo, Revival, and Sultans Great Day. The farms activities help benefit the Central Kentucky Riding for Hope "Horses For Heroes" program.
Shatner also plays on the World Poker Tour in the Hollywood Home Games,
where celebrities play for their favorite charities. Since 1990, he has been a leading force behind the Hollywood Charity Horse Show, which raises money for childrens charities.
====Public appearances====
On New Years Day 1994, Shatner was the Grand Marshal of the Tournament of Roses Parade in Pasadena, CA. Instead of riding in a classic car, he rode his horse down the parade route. For the 80th Rose Bowl game afterward, he participated in the pregame ceremonies including the coin toss between the University of Wisconsin Badgers and the University of California-Los Angeles (UCLA) Bruins. Wisconsin would go onto win the game 21-16.

In 2014, Shatner was one of the Grand marshal#Ceremonial Grand Marshals for the 102nd Calgary Stampede as he is an avid Equestrianism equestrian.
In September 2016, Shatner attended the 2016 Salt Lake Comic Con as a special guest.
In 2017, Shatner hosted as captain of the maiden voyage of a Star Trek-themed cruise entitled "Star Trek: The Cruise". The cruise was the first licensed by CBS Productions to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the show.
Through People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals PETA, Shatner asked that the 2018 cruise not offer any "swim with dolphins" experiences, explaining in a letter to the Norwegian Cruise Lines CEO that "The exploitation of any species for profit and entertainment would have violated the Prime Directive.”
==Awards and honors==
{{Main article List of awards and nominations received by William Shatner}}
*Two-time Saturn Award winner 
*Two-time Golden Raspberry Award winner
*Two-time Emmy Award winner
*2005 Golden Globe Award winner
*2009 Prism Award winner
*2009:Streamy Awards Streamy Award - Best Reality Web Series.
*Television Hall of Fame inductee (class of 2006).
*2011 Governor Generals Performing Arts Award
*2011: Honorary doctorate of Letters from McGill University, his alma mater.
*2014: NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal - highest award NASA gives a non-government employee."
*Star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame
*Star on Canadas Walk of Fame
*2015 VoiceArts® Icon Award. Voice Arts Awards
