Samuel Joel "Zero" Mostel (February 28, 1915 – September 8, 1977) was an American actor, singer and comedian of stage and screen, best known for his portrayal of comic characters such as Tevye on stage in Fiddler on the Roof, Pseudolus on stage and on screen in A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum, and Max Bialystock in the original film version of The Producers (1967 film) The Producers. Mostel was a student of Don Richardson (director) Don Richardson, using an acting technique based on muscle memory.
He was Hollywood blacklist blacklisted during the 1950s, and his testimony before the House Un-American Activities Committee was well-publicized. He was an Obie Award and three-time Tony Award winner.

==Early life==
Mostel was born in Brooklyn, to Israel Mostel, who was of Ashkenazi Jews Eastern European Jewish origin, and Cina "Celia" Druchs, a Polish Jew who was raised in Vienna. The two immigrated to the United States separately – Israel in 1898 and Cina in 1908 – where they met and married. Israel already had four children from his first wife; he had four more children with Cina. Samuel, later known as Zero, was Israels seventh child.{{citation needed date=June 2016}}

According to his brother, Bill Mostel, their mother coined the nickname "Zero", noting that if he continued to do poorly at school, he would amount to a Zero.
Initially living in the Brownsville, Brooklyn Brownsville section of Brooklyn, the family moved to Moodus, Connecticut, where they bought a farm. The familys income in those days came from a winery and a slaughterhouse. The farm failed, and the family moved back to New York, where his father obtained work as a wine chemist. Zero was described by his family as outgoing and lively, and with a developed sense of humor. He showed an intelligence and perception that convinced his father he had the makings of a rabbi,
but Mostel preferred painting and drawing, a passion he was to retain for life. According to Roger Butterfield, his mother sent him to the Metropolitan Museum of Art to copy paintings while dressed in a velvet suit. Zero had a favorite painting, John White Alexanders commons:File:Study_in_Black_and_Green.JPG Study in Black and Green, which he copied every day, to the delight of the gallery crowds. One afternoon, while a crowd was watching over his velvet-clad shoulder, he solemnly copied the whole painting upside down, delighting his audience.
Mostel spoke Yiddish, Italian language Italian and German language German.

He attended Public School 188, where he was an A student.{{cn date=November 2017}} He also received professional training as a painter through The Educational Alliance. He completed his high school education at Seward Park Campus Seward Park High School,
where his yearbook noted: "A future Rembrandt... or perhaps a comedian?".{{citation needed date=June 2016}}

Mostel attended the City College of New York, a public college that allowed many poor students to pursue higher education. He later claimed that he was on the swimming team and the Reserve Officers Training Corps, though the claim is dubious.
As only beginner classes were available in art, Mostel took them repeatedly to be able to paint and receive professional feedback.
During that time he worked odd jobs, and graduated in 1935 with a bachelors degree. He then continued studying towards an MA, and also joined the Public Works of Art Project (PWAP), which paid him a stipend to teach art.{{citation needed date=June 2016}}

In 1939 he married Clara Sverd, and the couple moved to an apartment in Brooklyn. The marriage did not last, however, since Clara could not accept the many hours Mostel spent in his studio with his fellow artists, and he did not seem to be able to provide for her at the level to which she had been accustomed. They separated in 1941 and divorced in 1944, Clara only agreeing to the divorce in return for a percentage of Mostels earnings for the rest of his life. The arrangement lasted until the mid-1950s.
==Career==

===Early comic routines===
File:Zeromostel.jpg thumb Performing in 1958
Part of Mostels duty with the Public Works of Art Project (PWAP) was to give gallery talks at New Yorks museums. Leading groups of students through the many paintings, Mostel could not suppress his comedic nature, and his lectures were noted less for their artistic content than for his sense of humor. As his reputation grew, he was invited to entertain at parties and other social occasions, earning three to five dollars per performance. Labor union social clubs followed, where Mostel mixed his comic routine with social commentary. These performances would play a large role in his eventual blacklisting in the next decade.{{citation needed date=June 2016}}

In 1941, the Café Society—a downtown Manhattan nightclub—approached Mostel with an offer to become a professional comedian and play a regular spot. Mostel accepted, and in the next few months he became the Café Societys main attraction. It was here that he adopted the stage name Zero (Zee to his friends), created by press agent Ivan Black at the behest of Barney Josephson, the proprietor, who felt that "Sam Mostel" was not appropriate for a comic.
<!-- The press agent of the night club prevailed upon Mostel to adopt this stage name, hoping that it would inspire the comment: "Heres a man who made something out of nothing." <== citation needed date=June 2016 -->
Thus, at the age of 27, Mostel dropped every other job and occupation to start his show business career.{{citation needed date=June 2016}}

===Rise===
Mostels rise from this point on was rapid. In 1942 alone his salary at the Café Society went up from $40 a week to $450; he appeared on radio shows, opened in two Broadway theatre Broadway shows (Keep Them Laughing, Top-Notchers), played at the Paramount Theater (New York City) Paramount Theatre, appeared in an MGM movie (DuBarry Was a Lady (film) Du Barry Was a Lady), and booked into La Martinique at $4,000 a week. He also made cameo appearances at the Yiddish theatre, the style of which influenced his own. In 1943 Life (magazine) Life magazine described him as "just about the funniest American now living".
In March 1943, Mostel was drafted by the Army. Although Mostel gave varying accounts of his Army service, records show he was honorably discharged in August 1943 because of an unspecified physical disability. He subsequently entertained servicemen through the United Service Organizations USO until 1945.
Mostel married Kathryn (Kate) Cecilia Harkin, an actress and dancer, on July 2, 1944, after two years of courtship. The pair met at Radio City Music Hall where she was a Rockette.
The marriage caused problems in his relationship with his Orthodox Jewish parents as his new wife was a gentile. His mother never met Kate or her grandsons.
