File:Smokeystoverdell.jpg left thumb 200px Dell Four Color #827 (August 1957)
Bill Holman (March 22, 1903 – February 27, 1987)
was an American cartoonist who drew the classic comic strip Smokey Stover from 1935 until he retired in 1973. Distributed through the Chicago Tribune New York News Syndicate Chicago Tribune syndicate, it had the longest run of any strip in the screwball genre. Holman signed some strips with the pseudonym Scat H. He once described himself as "always inclined to humor and acting silly."
Born in Crawfordsville, Indiana, Holman lived as a child in Nappanee, Indiana, a town where six successful cartoonists lived when they were children. Holmans father died when he was young. He began drawing when he was 12 years old.

While working part-time at Nappanees local five and dime store, he developed an interest in art as a career and sent away for the Landon School of Illustration and Cartooning correspondence course.
Dropping out of high school, he was 15 when he moved with his mother to Chicago. There he took night courses at the Academy of Fine Arts and learned more about cartooning from Carl Ed.

In 1920, he held a job as a copy boy at the Chicago Tribune for six dollars a week. The position gave him the opportunity to hang out with the top Tribune cartoonists, including Sidney Smith (cartoonist) Sidney Smith, Harold Gray and E. C. Segar.

In Cleveland, he began working for the United Media Newspaper Enterprise Association, which syndicated his short-lived animal strip, Billville Birds (1922). After three years with NEA and E. W. Scripps Company Scripps-Howard, he headed for New York, where he was a Herald Tribune staff artist and drew the child strip G. Whizz Jr. for the New York Herald Tribune Syndicate. He scored a success when he headed in a new direction, submitting his cartoons to a variety of different magazines, including Liberty (1924–1950) Liberty, Redbook, Colliers Weekly Colliers and Life (magazine) Life.
==Smokey Stover and Spooky==

Holman thought firemen were funny, "running around in a red wagon with sirens and bells," and he began doing Smokey Stover as a Sunday strip for the Chicago Tribune Syndicate on March 10, 1935.
