William J. C. "Bill" Amend III ({{IPAc-en ˈ eɪ m ə n d}}; born September 20, 1962) is an United States American cartoonist, best known for his comic strip FoxTrot.

==Early life==
Amend was born in Massachusetts and raised in Northern California. Amend attended high school in Burlingame, California Burlingame, California where he was a cartoonist on his school newspaper. Amend is an Eagle Scout (Boy Scouts of America) Eagle Scout in the Boy Scouts of America.
He graduated with a degree in physics from Amherst College in 1984.

==Career==
After a short time in the animation business, Amend decided to pursue a cartooning career and signed on with Universal Press Syndicate. FoxTrot first appeared on April 10, 1988. On May 21, 1999, Amherst College awarded him an honorary degree as Doctor of Humane Letters.
On December 5, 2006, Universal Press Syndicate issued a press release stating that Amends strip, FoxTrot, would turn into a Sunday-only strip.  Amend stated that he wants to continue doing the strip, but at a less hurried pace.
This news was followed by several weeks of the characters discussing a "cartoonist" semi-retiring to Sundays only, and what methods he would use to phase out the daily strips.  The last daily FoxTrot cartoon was printed on December 30, 2006.
Amend also sometimes does guest strips for webcomics. He has done so once for PVP by Scott Kurtz and at least twice for Penny Arcade by Mike Krahulik and Jerry Holkins. Also at least once for XKCD, but he had to use sudo to get the rights to do so.
On May 26, 2007, Amend was presented with the Reuben Award for Outstanding Cartoonist of the Year.
==Personal life==
Amend currently lives in the midwest.

Amend made a television appearance on The Screen Savers, which aired October 20, 2003 on the former TechTV.  Amend is also an avid World of Warcraft player, but refuses to reveal his characters name, although he did mention in an interview with Allakhazam (a World of Warcraft fan site) that he played on the server Bronzebeard (Jason is often shown or referred to playing "World of Warquest" in the strip).
