Charles Monroe Schulz ({{IPAc-en ʃ ʊ l t s}}; November 26, 1922 – February 12, 2000),
nicknamed Sparky, was an American cartoonist best known for the comic strip Peanuts (which featured the characters Charlie Brown and Snoopy, among others). He is widely regarded as one of the most influential cartoonists of all time, cited as a major influence by many later cartoonists, including Jim Davis (cartoonist) Jim Davis, Bill Watterson, and Matt Groening.

==Early life and education==
File:Charles Schulz HS Yearbook.jpg thumb left Schulzs high school yearbook photo, 1940
Born in Minneapolis, Minnesota,
Schulz grew up in Saint Paul, Minnesota Saint Paul. He was the only child of Carl Schulz, who was born in Germany, and Dena Halverson, who had Norway Norwegian heritage.
His uncle called him "Sparky" after the horse Spark Plug in Billy DeBecks comic strip, Barney Google and Snuffy Smith Barney Google.
Schulz loved drawing and sometimes drew his family dog, Spike, who ate unusual things, such as pins and tacks. In 1937, Schulz drew a picture of Spike and sent it to Ripleys Believe It or Not!; his drawing appeared in Robert Ripleys syndicated panel, captioned, "A hunting dog that eats pins, tacks, and razor blades is owned by C. F. Schulz, St. Paul, Minn." and "Drawn by Sparky"
(C.F. was his father, Carl Fred Schulz).
Schulz attended Richards Gordon Elementary School in Saint Paul, where he skipped two half-grades. He became a shy, timid teenager, perhaps as a result of being the youngest in his class at Central High School (Saint Paul, Minnesota) Central High School. One well-known episode in his high school life was the rejection of his drawings by his high school yearbook, which he referred to in Peanuts years later, when he had Lucy ask Charlie Brown to sign a picture he drew of a horse, only to then say it was a prank.
A five-foot-tall statue of Snoopy was placed in the schools main office 60 years later.
==Military service and post-war postions==
In February 1943, Schulzs mother Dena died after a long illness. At the time of her death, he had only recently been made aware that she suffered from cancer. Schulz had by all accounts been very close to his mother and her death had a big effect on him.
Around the same time, Schulz was Conscription drafted into the United States Army. He served as a staff sergeant with the 20th Armored Division (United States) 20th Armored Division in Europe during World War II, as a squad leader on a M2 Browning .50 caliber machine gun team. His unit saw combat only at the very end of the war. Schulz said he had one opportunity to fire his machine gun but forgot to load it. Fortunately, he said, the German soldier he could have fired at willingly surrendered. Years later, Schulz proudly spoke of his wartime service.
In late 1945, Schulz returned to Minneapolis. He did lettering for a Roman Catholic comic magazine, Timeless Topix, and then, in July 1946, took a job at Art Instruction Schools Art Instruction, Inc., reviewing and grading lessons submitted by students.
