Chester Gould ({{IPAc-en g uː l d}}; November 20, 1900 – May 11, 1985)
was an American cartoonist, best known as the creator of the Dick Tracy comic strip, which he wrote and drew from 1931 to 1977, incorporating numerous colorful and monstrous villains.

==Early life==

Chester Gould was born to Gilbert R. Gould, the son of a minister, and Alice Maud (née Miller).
All four of his grandparents were pioneer settlers of Oklahoma. He was a Christian,
but he was born Jewish.
Fascinated by the comics since childhood, Gould quickly found work as a cartoonist. He was hired by William Randolph Hearsts Chicagos American Chicago Evening American, where he produced his first comic strips, Fillum Fables (1924) and The Radio Catts. He also drew a topical strip about Chicago, Why Its a Windy City. Gould married Edna Gauger (1901–1994) in 1926, and their daughter, Jean, was born in 1927. A 1923 graduate, Gould is an alumnus of Northwestern University where he attended the Northwestern University School of Professional Studies School of Professional Studies.
File:BrightlightsbradyGould30.jpg right thumb Proposed comic strip drawn by Chester Gould one year before creating Dick Tracy. See this strip at full resolution at Three Men in a Tub.

His cousin Henry W. Gould is Professor Emeritus of Mathematics at West Virginia University.

==Dick Tracy==
In 1931, Gould was hired as a cartoonist with the Chicago Tribune and introduced Dick Tracy in the newspaper The Detroit Mirror on Sunday, October 4, 1931.
The original comic was based on a New York detective Gould was interested in. The comic then branched to the fictional character that became so famous.  He drew the comic strip for the next 46 years from his home in Woodstock, Illinois.

In order to keep informed of police methods, Gould took courses in forensics and investigative procedures. He was later proud of having introduced in 1946, the two-way wrist radio for Tracy, and in 1947, the closed-circuit television, both of which were later invented, though in somewhat different forms.

Goulds stories were rarely pre-planned, since he preferred to improvise stories as he drew them. While fans praised this approach as producing exciting stories, it sometimes created awkward plot developments that were difficult to resolve. In one notorious case, Gould had Tracy in an inescapable deathtrap (plot device) deathtrap with a Caisson (engineering) caisson. When Gould depicted Tracy addressing Gould personally and having the cartoonist magically extract him, publisher Joseph Medill Patterson Joseph Patterson vetoed the sequence and ordered it redrawn.  The strip also drew protests from those who felt that Mr. Goulds depiction of crime was too gruesome, that he poured on too much gore and carnage.
Later in the strips Gould period, the Tracy strip was widely criticized for being too right-wing in character and as excessively supportive of the police. Critics thought Gould ignored the rights of the accused and failed to support his agenda with an adequate story-line. The late 1950s also saw a newspaper readership growing less indulgent of Goulds politics.

Image:Dicktracy (mural).jpg thumb right Dick Tracy mural in downtown Pawnee, Oklahoma

For instance, Gould introduced an malodorous, tobacco-spitting character, B.O. Plenty, with little significant complaint from readers in the 1940s. However, the 1960s introduction of crooked lawyer Flyface and his relatives, surrounded by swarming flies, created a negative reader reaction strong enough for papers to drop the strip in large numbers. There was then a dramatic change in the strips setting, leaving behind the strips origins as an urban crime drama for science fiction plot elements and regular visits to the moon. An increasingly fantastic procession of enemies and stories ensued. The Apollo 11 moon landing prompted Gould to abandon this phase. Finally, Dick Tracy was beset by the overall trend in newspaper comics away from strips with continuing storylines and toward those whose stories are largely resolved within one series of panels.

Gould, his characters, and improbable plots were satirized in Al Capps comic strip Lil Abner with the Fearless Fosdick sequences (supposedly drawn by "Lester Gooch"); a notable villain was Bomb Face, a gangster whose head was a bomb.

==Awards and exhibitions==
Chester Gould won the National Cartoonists Societys Reuben Award in 1959 and 1977. The Mystery Writers of America honored Gould and his work with a Special Edgar Award in 1980. In 1995, the strip was one of 20 included in the Comic Strip Classics series of commemorative postage stamps and postcards.
Dick Tracy: The Art of Chester Gould was an exhibition in Port Chester, New York, at the National Cartoon Museum Museum of Cartoon Art from October 4 through November 30, 1978. The exhibition was curated by Bill Crouch, Jr.

From 1991 until 2008, the art and artifacts of Goulds career were displayed in the Chester Gould-Dick Tracy Museum that operated from the Woodstock, Illinois, Old Courthouse on the Square. Visitors to the Museum saw original comic strips, correspondence, photographs, and much memorabilia, including Goulds drawing board and chair. In 2000, the Museum received a Superior Achievement Award from the Illinois Association of Museums, and in 2001, it was given an Award of Excellence from the Illinois State Historical Society. The museum continues today as a virtual museum online.
Gould retired December 25, 1977, and died May 11, 1985, in Woodstock, Illinois, of congestive heart failure.
