Daniel S. DeCarlo (December 12, 1919 – December 18, 2001)
<!--cite is for life dates and for name Daniel S. DeCarlo-->
was an American cartoonist best known as the artist who developed the look of Archie Comics in the late 1950s and early 1960s, modernizing the characters to their contemporary appearance and establishing the publishers house style up until his death. As well, he is the generally recognized co-creator of the characters Sabrina the Teenage Witch, Josie and the Pussycats (comics) Josie and the Pussycats (with the lead character named for his wife), and Cheryl Blossom.

==Biography==

===Early life and career===
Dan DeCarlo was born in New Rochelle, New York,
the son of a gardener.
He attended New Rochelle High School in his hometown, followed by Manhattans Art Students League of New York Art Students League from 1938 to 1941, when he was military conscription drafted into the U.S. Army. Stationed in Great Britain, he worked in the motor pool and as a draftsman, and painted company Nose art mascots on the noses of airplanes. He also drew a weekly military comic strip, 418th Scandal Sheet.
He met his wife, French citizen Josie DeCarlo Josie Dumont, on a dating blind date in Belgium not long after the Battle of the Bulge.
==Atlas and Archie==
File:SherryShowgirl1.jpg thumb left Sherry the Showgirl #2 (Sept. 1956). Cover art by DeCarlo.
DeCarlo was married, with a pregnant wife, and a laborer working for his father when he began to pursue a professional art career.
Circa 1947, answering an ad, he broke into the comic book industry at Timely Comics, the 1940s iteration of Marvel Comics. Under editor-in-chief Stan Lee, his first assignment was the teen-humor series Jeanie.
<!--spelled with one "n" as per covers shown at Grand Comics Database entry at http://www.comics.org/series/505/-->
DeCarlo went uncredited, as was typical for most comic-book writers and artists of the era, and he recalled in 2001, "I went on with her maybe ten books. They used to call me The Jeanie Machine because that was all Stan used to give me, was Jeanie.... Then he took me off Jeanie and he gave me Millie the Model. That was a big break for me. It wasnt doing too well and somehow when I got on it became quite successful."
He went on to an atypically long, 10-year run on that humor series, from issues #18–93 (June 1949 – Nov. 1959), most of them published by Marvels 1950s predecessor, Atlas Comics (1950s) Atlas Comics.
DeCarlo and Lee also took over the My Friend Irma comic strip, spun off from the hit Marie Wilson radio comedy.
For a decade, DeCarlo wrote and drew the slapsticky adventures of Millie Collins, her redheaded friendly nemesis Chili Storm and the rest of the cast. He also contributed the short-lived Sherry the Showgirl and Showgirls for Atlas.
In 1960, he and Atlas editor-in-chief Stan Lee co-created the short-lived print syndication syndicated comic strip Willie Lumpkin, about a suburban mail carrier,
for the Chicago-based Publishers Syndicate.
A version of the character later appeared as a long-running minor supporting character in Lees later co-creation, the Marvel Comics series Fantastic Four

As well during this period, DeCarlo created and drew Standard Comics futuristic teen-humor comic book Jetta of the 21st Century. Running three issues, #5-7 (Dec. 1952 - April 1953), it featured red-haired Jetta Raye and her friends at Neutron High School.
In addition to his comic-book work, DeCarlo drew freelance pieces for the magazines The Saturday Evening Post and Argosy Magazine Argosy, as well as Timely/Atlas publisher Martin Goodman (publisher) Martin Goodmans Humorama line of pin-up girl cartoon digests.
DeCarlo first freelanced for Archie Comics, the company with which he would become most closely associated, in the late 1950s while still freelancing for Atlas. He said in 2001,
{{quote I was looking for extra work. I went down to see Harry Shorten [at Archie] and he gave me a job. The pay wasnt too good, but I did it and he liked it – but I didnt go back right away. Finally after two or three weeks go, he called me up and wanted to know what happened, why I wasnt around. I said, Well, you know Im very busy. ... I had Millie the Model, I had My Friend Irma (radio-TV) My Friend Irma, [and] Big Boy Restaurants#Adventures_of_the_Big_Boy_comic_book Big Boy. ... I told him, The people that Im working for now let me do my own thing. But when I do work for you, its "Draw like Bob Montana." And its hard to look at your reference, and then back at your own page. Its very slow, and very tedious and I didnt like it too much. He said, Come on in, and you can draw any way you like. That made me go back with him.
}}

DeCarlo is tentatively identified with Archie as early as the Jughead story "The Big Shot" in Archie Comics #48 (Feb. 1951),
with his earliest confirmed credit the 3 3/4-page story "No Picnic" in Archies Girls Betty and Veronica #4 (undated; published in late 1951 or early to mid-1952).
His art soon established the publishers house style.
As well, he is the generally recognized creator of the teen-humor characters Sabrina the Teenage Witch, Josie and the Pussycats (comics) Josie and the Pussycats, and Cheryl Blossom.
===Josie===
DeCarlo said he created Josie on his own in the late 1950s; his wife, named Josie DeCarlo Josie, said in an interview quoted in a DeCarlo obituary, "We went on a Caribbean cruise, and I had a [cat] costume for the cruise, and thats the way it started."
DeCarlo first tried to sell the character as a syndicated comic strip called Heres Josie, recalling in 2001:
{{quote text=When Publishers Syndicate in Chicago got interested in Willie Lumpkin ... I was also hustling my own strip and trying to get it published. Before we got to Publishers Syndicate, I went to United Media United Feature in New York City with two strips — Barneys Beat and Josie. [United Feature] told me they liked them both, and theyd like to see more samples, because I didnt bring much. I brought maybe six dailies of Barneys Beat and six dailies of Josie. That posed a problem for me. I knew I couldnt handle both strips and still keep up with the comic book work, because a syndicated bit was very risky. So, I decided to shelve Josie, and concentrated on Willie Lumpkin. [When that strip ended after] a year, maybe a year and a half[,] I quickly submitted the Josie strip back to the publishers and Harold Anderson, and he sent it back and said, Its not what were looking for, Dan, but keep up the good work, or words of that kind. Then is when I decided to take it to Archie to see if they could do it as a comic book. I showed it to Richard Goldwater, and he showed it to his father, and a day or two later I got the OK to do it as a comic book.
}}
File:Lapick inking decarlo archie.png left 400px thumb Original art panels from "The Reformer" in Archies Girls Betty and Veronica No. 157 (Jan. 1969), featuring (l. to r.) Veronica Lodge and Archie Andrews (comics) Archie Andrews. Penciler Penciled by DeCarlo, inker inked by Rudy Lapick.
Josie was introduced in Archies Pals and Gals Archies Pals n Gals No. 23. The first issue of Shes Josie followed, cover-dated February 1963.
The series featured levelheaded, sweet-natured Josie (whose last name was given as either Jones or James), her Blonde bombshell (stereotype) blond bombshell friend Melody, and bookwormish brunette Pepper. These early years also featured the characters of Josie and Peppers boyfriends Albert and Sock (real name Socrates); Alberts rival Alexander Cabot III; and Alexs twin sister Alexandra. Occasionally Josie and her friends would appear in "fictional crossover crossover" issues with the main Archie characters. Shes Josie was renamed Josie with issue No. 17 (Dec. 1965),
and again renamed, to Josie and the Pussycats, with issue No. 45 (Dec. 1969), whereby Pepper was replaced by Valerie and Albert was replaced by Alan M. Under this title, the series finished its run with issue No. 106 (Oct. 1982).
Josie and her gang also made irregular appearances in Pep Comics and Laugh Comics during the 1960s.
File:Dandecarlomens.png thumb right 300px 1956 example of DeCarlos cartoon work for mens magazines. "Allan, are you trying to pull the wool over my eyes?"
When Universal Pictures was preparing the live-action movie adaptation Josie and the Pussycats (film) Josie and the Pussycats in 2001, DeCarlo and Archie Comics became involved in a lawsuit over the characters creation, leading the publisher to terminate its 43-year relationship with him. A federal district court ruled in 2001 that Archie Comics owned the copyright to the Josie characters; this decision was affirmed by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals.
On December 11, 2001, the U.S. Supreme Court rejected an appeal filed by DeCarlos attorney, Whitney Seymour Jr., who had argued that the issue was a matter of state property law and not federal copyright law.
DeCarlo was listed as a creator in the end credits of the film Josie and the Pussycats (film) Josie and the Pussycats. He received credit as co-creator of the live-action television show Sabrina the Teenage Witch (1996 TV series) Sabrina the Teenage Witch.

Among DeCarlos final works were a story for Paul Dinis independent comics series Jingle Belle, and stories for Bongo Comics The Simpsons TV tie-in comic, Bart Simpson.

===Death===
DeCarlo died in New Rochelle, New York, of pneumonia.
Comics creator Paul Dini said upon DeCarlos death, "It was tragic that when he was at an age when many cartoonists are revered as treasures by more beneficent publishers, Dan felt spurned and slighted by the owners of properties that prospered greatly from his contributions."
==Personal life==
His twin sons, Dan DeCarlo Jr. Dan Jr. and Jim DeCarlo James "Jim" DeCarlo (born January 27, 1948)
were also prolific Archie artists, penciling and inking respectively.
The two predeceased their father. Dan Jr. died in October 1990
of stomach cancer,
and James died in August 1991
from complications from a stroke.
Josie DeCarlo, the inspiration for singer-guitarist Josie McCoy of the 1970s Hanna-Barbera series Josie and the Pussycats and its successors, died in her sleep on March 14, 2012.
==Josie DeCarlo==
Josette Marie "Josie" DeCarlo (née Dumont; September 8, 1923 – March 14, 2012) was a France French-born Model (person) model who became the inspiration and namesake for Josie McCoy of Josie and the Pussycats (comics) Josie and the Pussycats comics and the 1970 Hanna-Barbera Josie and the Pussycats (TV series) Saturday morning cartoon series.
She met her future husband, Dan DeCarlo, on a blind date in Belgium in 1945, just a short time after the end of the Battle of the Bulge.
