Erika Moen is an People of the United States American comic book artist, known for her Autobiographical comics autobiographical comic DAR, and the educational/Erotic comics erotic comic Oh Joy, Sex Toy.

==Biography==
Moen was born in 1983 and based in Portland, Oregon Portland, Oregon. She graduated from Pitzer College with a BA in Illustrated Storytelling in 2006.
She identifies as queer.
She and her husband, fellow artist Matthew Nolan, have been married since October 2008.
Moen is the creator of the self-published autobiographical on-line comic DAR!
which has been collected into self-published print volumes.
She also has contributed comic work to Best Erotic Comics 2008 (Last Gasp), True Porn Volume 2 (Alternative Comics (publisher) Alternative Comics), Flight (comics) Flight Volume 1; and Unsafe for All Ages, a collection of erotic short stories by gay and lesbian artists published by Prism Comics in 2005.
In 2004, Moen was profiled as a promising new talent "taking over the comic world with her stories about queer culture, sex, humor and cute girls" by Sequential Tart.
In 2011, she began collaborating with Marvel Comics writer Jeff Parker (comics) Jeff Parker on Bucko (comics) Bucko, a murder mystery/farce webcomic set in Portland. The story concluded in 2012, and was published in a collected volume by Dark Horse Comics.
Moen is a member of Periscope Studio.
She was among the comic book artists featured at the 6th annual Stumptown Comics Art exhibition Art Show in April and May 2010 at the Portland Center for the Performing Arts.
Since April 2013, Moen has been working full-time on her current webcomics project Oh Joy, Sex Toy, which centers around "reviews of everything that relates to sex, sexuality and the sex industry".
The series, which updates with a new review every Tuesday, has garnered a great deal of positive attention, including a reference in Dan Savages advice column Savage Love.
Strips have also been syndicated on several sex-positive sites including Bitch Media
and Fleshbot.
In addition to her comic work, Erika worked as Production Assistant in the Storyboard Department on Henry Selicks 3D Stop Motion Film Coraline (film) Coraline.
==Notes==
{{Reflist 30em}}
