Eugene Leslie Ahern (September 16, 1895 – March 6, 1960) was a cartoonist best known for his bombastic Major Hoople, a pompous character who appeared in the long-run syndicated gag panel Our Boarding House. Many of Aherns comic strips took a surreal or screwball approach, notably The Squirrel Cage with its nonsensical catchphrase "Nov shmoz ka pop."

== Biography ==
Ahern was born and raised in Chicago, attending public schools and working as a butcher boy, as noted in a 1929 newspaper article:
{{blockquote Gene Aherns path to the height of popularity in the comic world, started, strange as it may seem—in a meat market. True, he had been to art school before this, but it was his job as butchers helper that gave real opportunity the first chance to knock. Gene spent his time making sketches on the long rolls of brown paper in which the shops meat was wrapped. One day a man connected with a large fashion house came into the market for pork chops. Gene snipped them off and wrapped them up, using, by chance, a sheet of the paper he had previously covered with sketches. The customer eyed the package. “Who drew these?” he asked. “Oh, I did—just for the fun of it,” said Gene. Whereupon the customer suggested that it would be more fun to draw such pictures for money—and Ahern readily agreed that it would. The conversation continued and Gene told of his studies at art school and of his fondness for sketching. The stranger expressed interest and wound up by offering Gene a job in his fashion house art department. In his new job, he admits he hardly set the world on fire, but he learned a lot about drawing and that was what counted.
}}

In his teens, he worked as a model, which he later recalled, "Daily, I slipped on cutaway coats, silk top hats and immaculate white gloves—and stood indolently in the front of a room while an artist sketched me for a catalogue."

===Comic strips===
File:Roomandboard5452.jpg right thumb 500px Gene Aherns Room and Board (comic strip) Room and Board (May 2, 1952)
After three years study at the Chicago Art Institute, Ahern went to Cleveland and worked for the United Media NEA syndicate (1914–15) as a sportswriter and artist, initially inking comic drawings for $18 a week.
He worked on such strips as Dream Dope, Fathead Fritz, Sporty Sid and his Pals, Taking Her to the Ball Game, Aint Nature Wonderful, Squirrel Food, Balmy Benny and Otto Auto, about a man who loved driving so much that he couldnt stop. Comic strip historian Allan Holtz described the transitions of these Ahern creations:
{{blockquote In 1919, in his strip Squirrel Food, which was a pretty close copy of the look and humor of Rube Goldbergs strip, he introduced a new character, Otto Auto, on February 28. Originally Otto was a sprite who inhabited the background of the strip. Ottos schtick was that he drove his car like a bat out of hell and wouldnt let anything or anyone slow him down. Despite being relegated to the background, Otto quickly became the most popular feature of the strip. On July 20 Squirrel Food was renamed Otto Auto and the mad driver became the star of the show. Ahern made a daily game out of Ottos driving exploits, inviting readers to submit ideas for how to stop Ottos car. Every day Otto would encounter readers traps and ambushes, and every day Otto would successfully avert them. This period of the strip was, for my money, one of the funniest slapstick sequences ever committed to newsprint... All good things must come to an end, though. Ahern knew that trying to make Otto Auto a series endlessly plying this single joke was a mistake. So it came that Ottos car was finally stopped and the strip moved to a garage where Otto and his second banana Clem traded jibes as fumbling mechanics... Otto Auto continued in this vein until February 6, 1921, when the strip was replaced by Crazy Quilt.
}}

===The Nut Brothers===
In 1921 he introduced the Nut Brothers, Ches and Wal, in Crazy Quilt. That same year, NEA General Manager Frank Rostock suggested to Ahern that he use a boarding house for a setting. Our Boarding House began September 16, 1921, scoring a huge success with readers after the January 1922 arrival of the fustian Major Hoople.
