George Cruikshank (27 September 1792 – 1 February 1878) was a British caricaturist and book illustrator, praised as the "modern William Hogarth Hogarth" during his life. His book illustrations for his friend Charles Dickens, and many other authors, reached an international audience.

==Early life==
Cruikshank was born in London. His father, Isaac Cruikshank, was one of the leading caricaturists of the late 1790s and Cruikshank started his career as his fathers apprentice and assistant.

His older brother, Isaac Robert Cruikshank Isaac Robert, also followed in the family business as a caricaturist and illustrator. Cruikshanks early work was caricature; but in 1823, at the age of 31, he started to focus on book illustration. He illustrated the first, 1823 English translation (by Edgar Taylor (author) Edgar Taylor and David Jardine) of Grimms Fairy Tales, published in two volumes as German Popular Stories.
On 16 October 1827, he married Mary Ann Walker (1807–1849). Two years after her death, on 7 March 1851, he married Eliza Widdison. The two lived at 263 Hampstead Road, North London.

Upon his death, it was discovered that Cruikshank had fathered 11 illegitimate children with a mistress named Adelaide Attree, his former servant, who lived close to where he lived with his wife. Adelaide was ostensibly married and had taken the married surname Archibold.
==Sociopolitical caricatures and illustrations==
Cruikshanks early career was renowned for his social caricatures of English life for popular publications.
He achieved early success collaborating with William Hone in his political satire The Political House That Jack Built (1819). File:The New Union Club Being a Representation of what took place at a celebrated Dinner given by a celebrated society.jpg thumbnail The New Union Club dinner with black guestsIn the same year he produced the remarkable anti-abolitionist New Union Club. It satirised a dinner party organised by abolitionists with black guests.
His first major work was Pierce Egans Life in London (1821)in which the characters Tom and
Jerry, two men about town visit various London locations and taverns to enjoy themselves and carouse. This was followed by The Comic Almanack (1835–1853) and Omnibus (1842).
<!-- Deleted image removed: File:Regents brithday.jpg thumb left Merry Making on the Regents Birthday 1812 -->
File:Cruikshank - Old Bumblehead.png thumb Old Bumblehead the 18th trying on Napoleon Boots 1823

He gained notoriety with his political prints that attacked the royal family and leading politicians. In 1820 he received a royal bribe of £100 for a pledge "not to caricature His Majesty" (George IV of the United Kingdom) "in any immoral situation". His work included a personification of England named John Bull who was developed from about 1790 in conjunction with other British satirical artists such as James Gillray, and Thomas Rowlandson.
Cruikshank replaced one of his major influences, James Gillray, as Englands most popular satirist. For a generation he delineated Tories, British Whig Party Whigs and Radicals impartially. Satirical material came to him from every public event – wars abroad, the enemies of Britain (he was highly patriotic), the frolic, among other qualities, such as the weird and terrible, in which he excelled. His hostility to enemies of Britain and a crude racism is evident in his illustrations commissioned to accompany William Hamilton Maxwell William Maxwells History of the Irish rebellion in 1798 (1845) where his lurid depictions of incidents in the Irish Rebellion of 1798 rebellion were characterised by the simian-like portrayal of Irish rebels.  Among the other racially engaged works of Cruikshank there were caricatures about the "legal barbarities" of the Chinese, the subject given by his friend, Dr. W. Gourley, a participant in the ideological battle around the Second Opium War Arrow War, 1856–60. 
File:Cruikshank fagin cell.jpg thumb 200px right Fagin in his cell.
<br/>
Copperplate engraving, 1838

==Charles Dickens==
For Charles Dickens, Cruikshank illustrated Sketches by Boz (1836), The Mudfog Papers (1837–38)  and Oliver Twist (1838). Cruikshank even acted in Dickenss amateur theatrical company.

On 30 December 1871 Cruikshank published a letter in The Times which claimed credit for much of the plot of Oliver Twist. The letter launched a fierce controversy around who created the work. Cruikshank was not the first Dickens illustrator to make such a claim. Robert Seymour (illustrator) Robert Seymour who illustrated the Pickwick Papers suggested that the idea for that novel was originally his; however, in his preface to the 1867 edition, Dickens strenuously denied any specific input.

The friendship between Cruikshank and Dickens soured further when Cruikshank became a fanatical teetotaler in opposition to Dickenss views of moderation.

In Somerset Maughams short story "Miss King", Cruickshanks influence is referenced: "She wore a large white cotton nightcap (on entering Ashenden has noticed the brown wig on a stand on the dressing-table) tied under the chin and a white voluminous nightdress that came high up in the neck. Nightcap and nightdress belonged to a past age and reminded you of Cruickshanks illustrations to the novels of Charles Dickens."

==Temperance and the Volunteers==
In the late 1840s, Cruikshanks focus shifted from book illustration to an obsession with temperance movement temperance and anti-smoking. Formerly a heavy drinker, he now supported, lectured to, and supplied illustrations for the National Temperance Society and the Total Abstinence Society, among others. The best known of these are The Bottle, 8 plates (1847),
with its sequel, The Drunkards Children, 8 plates (1848), with the ambitious work, The Worship of Bacchus, published by subscription after the artists oil painting, now in the Tate Gallery, London. For his efforts he was made vice president of the National Temperance League in 1856.

When the invasion scare of 1859 led to the creation of the Volunteer Force (Great Britain) Volunteer Movement, Cruikshank was one of those who organised Rifle Volunteer Corps (RVCs). At first his unit was the 24th Surrey RVC, which recruited from working men who were total abstainers and was named Havelocks Own in honour of Major-General Sir Henry Havelock, a hero of the Indian Mutiny and pioneer of Temperance Clubs in the army. However, Cruikshank received little encouragement from the Lord-Lieutenant of Surrey, and was rebuked for crossing into Kent to recruit. Disgusted, he disbanded his unit in 1862 and began anew in Middlesex, organising the 48th Middlesex RVC (Havelocks Temperance Volunteers). The unit ran into financial difficulties and when Cruikshank was forced to retire due to age, he was replaced as commanding officer by Lt-Col Cuthbert Vickers, a wealthy shipowner. The 48th Middlesex merged with the 2nd City of London RVC, also a working-mens unit, composed mainly of printers from the Fleet Street area, and the combined unit had a long history as the City of London Rifles.
==Later years==
After he developed :wikt:palsy palsy in later life, Cruikshanks health and work began to decline in quality. He died on 1 February 1878 and was originally buried in Kensal Green Cemetery. In November 1878 his remains were exhumed and reburied in St. Pauls Cathedral.
Punch (magazine) Punch magazine, which presumably did not know of his large illegitimate family, said in its obituary: "There never was a purer, simpler, more straightforward or altogether more blameless man. His nature had something childlike in its transparency."
In his lifetime he created nearly 10,000 prints, illustrations, and plates. There are collections of his works in the British Museum and the Victoria and Albert Museum. A Royal Society of Arts blue plaque commemorates Cruikshank at 293 Hampstead Road in Camden Town.
==Samples of his work==
The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman
<gallery heights="180" mode="packed">
 File:George Cruikshank - Tristram Shandy, Plate I. The Effects of Trims Eloquence.jpg Plate I
File:George Cruikshank - Tristram Shandy, Plate II. Obadiah leading in Dr. Slop.jpg Plate II
File:George Cruikshank - Tristram Shandy, Plate III. The Jack-boots transformed into Mortars.jpg Plate III
File:George Cruikshank - Tristram Shandy, Plate IV. The long-nosed Stranger of Strasburg.jpg Plate IV
File:George Cruikshank - Tristram Shandy, Plate V. My Uncle Toby on his Hobby-horse.jpg Plate V
File:George Cruikshank - Tristram Shandy, Plate VI. Trims relation of Tristrams misfortune.jpg Plate VI
File:George Cruikshank - Tristram Shandy, Plate VII. The Quarrel of Slop and Susannah.jpg Plate VII
File:George Cruikshank - Tristram Shandy, Plate VIII. The Smoking Batteries.jpg Plate VIII
</gallery>
Others
<gallery heights="180" mode="packed">
 File:Jacco1.jpg Jacco Macacco at the Westminster-Pit
 <br/>
 1821.
File:1819 Prince Regent G Cruikshank caricature.png An unflattering 1819 caricature of the George IV of the United Kingdom Prince Regent illustrating "The Political House that Jack Built" by William Hone.
File:1850-g-cruikshank-crinoline-parody.png A Splendid Spread, early satire on the 1850s in fashion crinoline from The Comic Almanack for 1850.
File:Cruikshank-Self-Portrait-1858.jpg George Cruikshank, Self-Portrait.
File:Cruikshank-dandies.jpg Humming-birds—or—a Dandy Trio. 1819.
File:Monstrosities-of-1818-Cruikshank.jpg Monstrosities of 1818, extravagant clothing styles of mens and womens fashions.
File:Loo in the Kitchen.jpg A group of servants gathered in a kitchen, ape the manners of their employers.
File:The old maid and her tom cat LCCN2006688809.jpg Caricature of the Old Bailey
File:Spectacles-op.jpg Caricature concerning the prices at the Covent Garden Theatre
File:British valour.jpg 1813 Caricature showing the Americans as cowardly in face of the British.
File:Cruikshank - Snuffing out Boney.png Snuffing out Napoleon Bonaparte Boney, 1814
File:1841 december 280.jpg December – A Swallow at Christmas (Rara avis in terris).
</gallery>
