Kris Straub is a webcartoonist and the creator of Checkerboard Nightmare, Starslip, Chainsawsuit, Broodhollow, and F Chords. He is also a co-founder of webcomics collectives Blank Label Comics and Halfpixel. Straub and Scott Kurtz have co-created the animated series Blamimation with Kris and Scott and the live-action comedy webseries Kris and Scotts Scott and Kris Show for Penny Arcades PATV web video content imprint. He currently hosts the podcast 28 Plays Later alongside Paul Verhoeven (broadcaster) Paul Verhoeven. Straub also manages and writes for the horror fiction site Ichor Falls, which is notable for the List of Internet phenomena#Creepypasta creepypasta Candle Cove.

==Early life==
Straub grew up in Los Angeles, and went on to attend and graduate from UCLA with a degree in Computer Science.

==Career==

===As a cartoonist===
Straub launched his first comic, Checkerboard Nightmare, online in 2000. The strip was self-aware, using metahumour extensively, and the title character, Checkerboard Nightmare (Chex) being obsessed with gaining fame as a webcomic character and willing to do anything necessary to achieve it.
The setup of the strip does not change beyond Chex wants new readers and concocts a hare-brained scheme to get them, satirising the strict adherence to format exhibited by, for example, sitcoms. Its targets expanded as the strip progressed, and shifted from satirising webcomics to the search for fame in general with the move to Keenspot. Checkerboard Nightmare was originally hosted independently, it moved to Keenspot for a time, before becoming one of the founding comics of Blank Label Comics.  During 2006, it appeared monthly on the webcomic news site Comixpedia.

In 2005 Straub began creating Starslip, a daily science fiction/comedy webcomic. Starslip Crisis was first set in the 35th century 3440s, aboard the starship IDS Fuseli, 
named after painter Henry Fuseli.
The Fuseli was a former luxury warship which has been converted into a starship museum. It is still capable of military activities. The Fuseli travelled from system to system with its exhibits (using a faster than light "starslip drive"), the comic chronicling the adventures of the crew. Much of the art featured upon the Fuseli dated from the 20th or 21st centuries.
Starslip Crisis was part of the webcomics cooperation collective Blank Label Comics,
until Straub split away from Blank Label to merge Starslip with his new collective,  Halfpixel,  in November 2007.
The comic initially ran under the name Starshift Crisis. The nearly identical Starslip Crisis appeared early in the strips run, with its own website and associated content, differing only in that the term "starslip" replaced "starshift". The two ran in parallel, until a strip in August 2005 which definitively ended the plot of Starshift Crisis, but which played out differently in Starslip Crisis. Reportedly the name change was caused by a legal issue.
On January 12, 2009, Straub rebooted the artwork and modified the name of the strip after a storyline where the Fuseli, the ship the comic is set on, escapes from a Universe destroyed by the Future. The series officially finished on June 15, 2012

chainsawsuit, formerly titled indie comic by kris straub, was launched in March 2008 as a parody of badly drawn gag-a-day strips. Straub soon renamed the comic after one of its recurring characters so that it could expand beyond mocking indie comics. It ran for a few months on a Monday-Wednesday-Friday schedule, then began to update every weekday starting in August 2008. Its topics range from current events to pop culture. Recurring characters include Chainsawsuit, a man with a series of chainsaws strapped to his body for self-defense against zombies; Famous Chef, a caricature of Gordon Ramsay; Lazy Cat, an ultraviolent send-up of Garfield; Two Cops, a police officer who was accidentally enrolled in the academy twice and is regarded by all characters as two separate people; H. P. Wuvcraft, a cuddlier version of Lovecraft; master pickup artist Huntyr Chase; and Straub himself, who appears in some autobiographical comics.

2008 also saw the launch of F Chords which ran from July 29, 2008 to December 5 of the same year, ending along with its first story arc. Its main characters—Ash and Wade, two Austin-area Session musician studio musicians who also play in an unknown local band named "Soft Operation"—have gone on to make cameo appearances in both Starslip and chainsawsuit. In May 2011, F Chords was relaunched as a daily comic. Its setting has been relocated to Los Angeles, and follows Ash and Wades continued efforts to popularize their band.

On September 26, 2012, Straub launched Broodhollow, a series set in a 1930s American town of the same name. It involves "all manner of ghost" and is somewhat based on Straubs own superstitions and fears of the paranormal. The series opens with Zane, a door-to-door salesperson for Encyclopedia Atlantica, traveling to Broodhollow after being notified that a distant relative had died months earlier. Broodhollow is a sister town of Ichor Falls.

===Writer and producer===
In December 2006, Straub was named co-writer and co-producer alongside Scott Kurtz on PvP: The Series, a series of animated shorts featuring the PvP characters. In 2007, to coincide with his move to Dallas, Straub repurposed the Halfpixel site to serve as a hub for his and Kurtzs joint creative projects. Halfpixel later expanded to include webcartoonists Brad Guigar and Dave Kellett of the comics Evil Inc. and Sheldon (webcomic) Sheldon, respectively. The four published How To Make Webcomics through Image Comics in the first quarter of 2008. The book covers a variety of topics of interest for beginning and intermediate webcartoonists.
Straub went on to co-produced Blamimation and the Kris and Scott’s Scott and Kris Show for Penny Arcade TV. In 2012 ShiftyLook announced that Straub and Kurtz were co-producing a new animated web series, Mappy#Web series Mappy: The Beat, in which they also voice all the characters. The series premiered in July 2013 and aired for 13 episodes.
Straub manages and writes for his own horror fiction website Ichor Falls, which features his most notable work of short fiction Candle Cove. Straubs original short story is in the form of a series of forum posts by people reminiscing about a childrens show called Candle Cove. Although it seems at first to be a normal childrens program, they gradually recall disturbing aspects of the program and a bizarre episode in particular, before discovering that Candle Cove was merely half an hour of TV static which the children believed was a program.
Many people continue the meme by either posting details about the show or uploading videos to YouTube of static and claiming that they can see an episode of Candle Cove, with some users of YouTube even recreating the final episode, where the characters just scream randomly for nearly a minute. Candle Cove was adapted as the first season for the SyFy Channel series Channel Zero (TV series) Channel Zero in 2016.

Straubs YouTube channel "Chainsawsuit Original" also features a trio of short horror films, which are presented as broadcasts from a fictional TV station called "Local 58": "Contingency", a 1970s-era US government film "accidentally" aired at sign-off time; "Weather Service", a series of weather warnings which turn out to mask a more sinister purpose; and "You Are On The Fastest Available Route", where a GPS voice leads a driver to an uncertain destination.

===Podcast host===
Straub has co-hosted numerous podcasts throughout his career, most of which center around the online comic industry, daily life, or comedy talk shows.

In 2005 while part of the comic collective Blank Label Comics Straub and Dave Kellett co-hosted the Blank Label Comics Podcast.
The podcast interviewed fellow webcomic creators about their comics and creative process. In 2007, leading up to the release of How To Make Webcomics, Straub alongside the books co authors Scott Kurtz, Brad Guigar and Dave Kellett produced the podcast Webcomics Weekly.
The show featured comic industry news, techniques and general advice on how to create and maintain a successful comic online. In this same time period Straub and Kurtz also produced two joint podcasts, The Kris and Scott Power Hour
and Daily Affirmation.
From 2009 to 2012 Straub also hosted, along with David Malki, comedic internet radio talk show Tweet Me Harder. The show was recorded live and had the hosts interact with a Twitter feed of listeners reactions to the broadcast, occasionally using comments as a springboard for their conversations. Following Tweet Me Harder, Straub then co-hosted Chainsawsuit: The Podcast with Mikey Neumann. The show began in April 2013 and spanned to December 2014 and included contents such as comedic sketches, satire, movie reviews, and general discussion.
Beginning in January 2015, Straub and Neumann began hosting Morning Rush. This show contained content similar to Chainsawsuit: The Podcast, but with the general framework of a morning radio show. This show was short-lived, ending in June 2015 after 16 episodes.
Straubs ongoing podcast 28 Plays Later began in March 2015, briefly running concurrently with Morning Rush.
