Kyle John Baker
(born 1965)
is an United States American cartoonist, comic book writer-artist, and animator known for his graphic novels and for a 2000s revival of the series Plastic Man.

Baker has won numerous Eisner Awards and Harvey Awards for his work in the comics field.

==Biography==

===Early life and career===
Kyle Baker was born in the Queens, New York City,
the son of art director John M. Baker and high-school audiovisual-department manager Eleanor L. Baker.
He has a brother and a sister.
Their parents had both attended Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, New York (state) New York, and their father, who, Baker said, "worked in advertising [and] made junk mail", would "draw pictures for us and entertain us."
Aside from this exposure to art, Baker has said, his early artistic influences included comic book artist Jack Kirby, caricature caricaturist Jack Davis (cartoonist) Jack Davis, and painter and magazine illustrator Norman Rockwell. He noted:
{{quote When I was a little boy I loved the comic strips funny papers. ... I used to read Pogo (comics) Pogo, Lil Abner, Peanuts, Blondie (comic strip) Blondie and B.C. (comic strip) B.C. among others. I loved to draw Johnny Harts B.C. characters and the Muppets. I made up my own cartoon characters and drew stories about them. I loved Mad (magazine) Mad magazine. I had paperback reprints of the early Harvey Kurtzman [Harvey] Kurtzman stories, illustrated by Wally Wood, Will Elder, and Jack Davis. I loved Walt Disney Pictures Disney movies. ... I would come home from the movies and practice drawing the characters. I drew little animated flip books on index cards. When I was 11, I had a Super-8 movie camera and I made animated cartoons. I remember making a King Kong out of clay, and a drawing of a New York skyline, and I made a stop-motion film of King-Kong fighting model airplanes. In junior high school, I drew comic books and Xeroxed them at my dads office. I sold the Xeroxes for five cents each. I think I made fifteen cents.
}}

Other influences included the Charlton Comics artwork of Jim Aparo and Steve Ditko.
===Breaking into comics===
In his senior year of high school, Baker became an intern at Marvel Comics, making photocopies and filing fan mail.
"I sort of fell into Marvel because I happened to know somebody there," he said. "But I always thought I was going to do funny stuff" rather than superhero comics.
He became background assistant to Marvel inker Josef Rubinstein, and later also assisted Vince Colletta and Andy Mushynski.
He cited Marvel artists Walt Simonson, Al Milgrom and Larry Hama and writer and editor-in-chief Jim Shooter as providing him art and storytelling advice.
Part of his duties involved photocopying, and he would take copies of John Buscema penciler penciling home on which to practice inker inking.
While working for Marvel, Baker attended the School of Visual Arts, in Manhattan, studying graphic design and printmaking,
but dropped out after two years.
Through that connection, however, he began freelancing with famed graphic designer Milton Glaser, an SVA instructor, assisting him on a set of childrens literature childrens books.
Bakers first credited work at Marvel is penciler penciling the half-page entry "Kid Commandos" in The Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe #13 (February1984).
After a handful of inking assignments on issues of Transformers, Avengers (comics) The Avengers Annual #14 (1985) and elsewhere, Baker made his professional story-illustration debut as penciler and inker of the publisher Lodestone Comics Codename: Danger #2 (October 1985), with a 23-page story written by Brian Marshall, Mike Harris (comics) Mike Harris, and Robert Loren Fleming. Cover penciling and more interior inking for Marvel and occasionally DC followed. His first story penciling for one of the two major comics companies was the three-issue Howard The Duck: The Movie (December 1986 - February 1987), adapting the 1986 film Howard the Duck (film) Howard the Duck, and which he self-inked.
During this time, Baker also attempted to sell humor spot illustrations, but was rejected by the major newspaper print syndication syndicates. Jim Salicrup, a Marvel editor, did commission him "to write a few one-panel gags about [the superhero team] the X-Men",
titled "Its Genetic" and appearing in the Marvel-produced fan magazine Marvel Age.
===First graphic novel===
At the recommendation of freelance artist Ron Fontes, an editor at the Dolphin imprint (trade name) imprint of the publishing house Doubleday (publisher) Doubleday expressed interest in Bakers sample strips of the character Cowboy Wally, "and asked if I had any more. I lied and said I did."
This led to the 128-page graphic novel Cowboy Wally.
"The character of Noel was pretty much based on me," Baker said in 1999. "I lie all the time.
The first part of the books is the collected strips, and the other three chapters were written for the book.
"It didnt sell many copies," Baker said, "but at least it convinced DC Comics DC [Comics] I should be allowed to draw, not just ink."
Baker went on to draw DCs 1980s comics revival of the pulp magazine pulp fiction hero The Shadow, beginning with The Shadow Annual #2 (1988), followed by the monthly series from issue #7 to the final issue, #19 (February 1988 - January 1989). He did assorted other DC work including Justice, Inc. (comics) Justice, Inc. In 1990, Baker and writer Len Wein produced three issues of Dick Tracy for The Walt Disney Companys Hollywood Comics, the first two issues containing original stories, the third an adaption the 1990 Dick Tracy (1990 film) Dick Tracy film.
He began scripting comics around this time: Baker penciled and inked First Comics Classics Illustrated #3 &amp; 21 (February 1990 &amp; March 1991), adapting, respectively, Through the Looking Glass and Cyrano de Bergerac (play) Cyrano de Bergerac. While Peter David scripted the latter, Baker himself wrote the adaptation of the Lewis Carroll work.
"Id never planned to become a writer," Baker said in 1999. "I wrote short gags, like the kind you see in the newspapers and Cowboy Wally, but not stories. I only learned to write stories because people kept paying me to write them. In the years 1991-1994, 90 percent of my income was from writing, and I received very few offers to draw. I figured I should learn to write."
===Why I Hate Saturn, commercial illustration===
File:WhyIHateSaturn.jpg upright thumb Bakers Why I Hate Saturn, 1998 reprint edition
Baker achieved recognition and won an Eisner Award for his 1990 graphic novel Why I Hate Saturn, published by the DC Comics imprint (trade name) imprint Piranha Press. Baker said in 1999 of his breakthrough work,
{{quote I wrote Why I Hate Saturn at a time when comic books had stopped being fun for me. I was tired of being told how to draw and what to draw. And I was sick of begging people to let me work the way I wanted. Editors told me my stuff was underground and alternative. I decided that if I were going to work in a creatively oppressive atmosphere and not even be allowed to own my work, I might as well go to Hollywood and be oppressed for big money. Back in the eighties, DC Comics DC and Marvel Comics Marvel wouldnt let you own your characters, and Fantagraphics had no money. So when I finally got permission to do Why I Hate Saturn, a book Id been trying years to sell, I decided to write it like a sitcom and send it to Hollywood. ... [However,] I dont have anything to do with the [then-proposed] Why I Hate Saturn movie. DC controls those rights. I dont own those characters, so it is of no interest to me.
