Robyn E. Kenealy (born 1983)
is a comic book artist and organiser in the New Zealand art communities. She is based in Wellington, and had a role in establishing the 91 Aro St Gallery,
organising the New Zealand Comics Weekend
and the Eric Awards.
Kenealys early works, Influenza in Wellington and Love Aint Easy, were predominantly autobiographical comics. Her later work Roddys Film Companion (a biography of the film actor Roddy McDowall) marks a distinct shift from this style. Although Roddys Film Companion is biographical, it is also fictional and frequently acknowledges the limitations of truth and fact in historical research. These themes are continued in Steve Rogers American Captain, an autobiographical comic told from the perspective of Captain America Captain Americas alter-ego.
==Roddys Film Companion==
From 2005 to 2011 Kenealy produced Roddys Film Companion, a semi-fictional/biographical comic about the life of the actor Roddy McDowall, whose most well-known role was playing List of Planet of the Apes characters#Cornelius Cornelius in Planet of the Apes (1968 film) Planet of the Apes. Richard Burton, Elizabeth Taylor, Joseph Mankiewicz and Darryl Zanuck also feature in the comics. However, Roddys Film Companion is not so much concerned with presenting an accurate portrait of Roddy McDowalls life, but rather with interrogating the limits of truth and reality in biographies through fictionalisation. As Kenealy writes on her website, "Roddys Film Companion is a one half fiction semi-fictional biography comic of child actor child star cum character actor Roddy McDowall (whom you might remember from such films as How Green Was My Valley (film) How Green Was My Valley and Planet of the Apes) and one half a musing on the phenomenon of celebrity itself, as applied to both author and subject."
The first issue, released in 2006, is set while Roddy was filming the Darryl Zanuck production of Cleopatra (1963 film) Cleopatra. In late 2008 she started uploading Roddys Film Companion to the internet.

Kenealy won the award for the best cartoon in the 2009 Aotearoa Student Press Association ASPA awards with The Darkroom weekly serial (a backstory to Roddys Film Companion) which appeared in Salient (magazine) Salient Magazine. Dylan Horrocks, one of the judges, wrote that Kenealys comics have "all kinds of smarts going on just below the surface."
Tim Bollinger wrote that The Darkroom has "smart conversational language and pen-and-ink-wash visual narrative."
==Steve Rogers American Captain==
Steve Rogers American Captain is an autobiographical comic told from the perspective of Captain Americas alter-ego, Steve Rogers. Its title is a reference to American Splendor and James Kochalka#American Elf American Elf. Additional story and character development is provided by Johanna Freeman and Ross Sélavy Brighton.
