S. Jithesh, popularly known as Jitheshji,
is a speed cartoonist and former Vice-Chairman of Kerala Cartoon Academy. He has initiated and popularised "Super-Speedy Cartooning" through his infotainment cartoon stage shows named Varayarangu.
His infotainment art form, Varayarangu, is a blend of poetry, anecdotes, and socio-political satire with high speed drawing. Sketching of more than thousand celebrity caricatures at a quick pace and satirical commentary is the major attraction of his cartoon stage shows.
He is recognised as the "Worlds Fastest Performing Cartoonist" since his ability to speed sketch fifty celebrity caricatures within five minutes.
He has conducted more than 5000 speed cartoon stage shows across India and abroad.
As a Performing Cartoonist he is known for his lightning sketches and pictorial speech on stage.
He is the first Indian performing artist who performed Speed cartoon Stage shows in five foreign countries within 5 consecutive days as a part of Asianet News program "Proud to be An Indian"
Jithesh has carved out his own niche of political sketches which have appeared in many Kerala publication. He has drawn cover illustrations and caricatures for more than a thousand books in Malayalam including Kamala Das collection of short stories, Madhavikkuttiyude Unmakadhakal.{{Citation needed date=February 2014}} He was the editor-in-chief of Chiricheppu Cartoon monthly. Jitheshs interests are not limited to cartooning alone since he has also published his own collections of poems in Malayalam.
==Personal life==
He was born  on December 30, 1974 at Pandalam in Pathanamthitta District as the son of K. N. Somasekharan Nair and M. Remani Amma
He graduated with a LL.B degree and an M.A in English Literature. He is married to Unnimaya and father of two children.
==Published works==
*Nakshathrangale Pranayicha Oraal (Library of Congress citation: Jitēṣ, Es. Nakṣatr̲aṅṅaḷe pr̲aṇayicca orāḷ : kavitakaḷ / Es. Jitēṣ. Nūr̲anāṭ : Uṇma Pabḷikkēṣans, 1999. 50 p. : ill. ; 22 cm. LC Control Number 99952122)

*Kuttikkavitthakalum Cartoon Padanavum 
*Cartoon-Caricature Varakkaan Padikkan
