Stephen J. Ditko
({{IPAc-en ˈ d ɪ t k oʊ}}; November 2, 1927 – c. June 29, 2018) was an American comics artist and writer best known as the artist and co-creator, with Stan Lee, of the Marvel Comics superheroes Spider-Man and Doctor Strange.

Ditko studied under Batman artist Jerry Robinson at the Cartoonist and Illustrators School in New York City. He began his professional career in 1953, working in the studio of Joe Simon and Jack Kirby, beginning as an inker and coming under the influence of artist Mort Meskin. During this time, he then began his long association with Charlton Comics, where he did work in the genres of science fiction, horror, and mystery. He also co-created the superhero Captain Atom in 1960.

During the 1950s, Ditko also drew for Atlas Comics (1950s) Atlas Comics, a forerunner of Marvel Comics. He went on to contribute much significant work to Marvel. In 1966, after being the exclusive artist on The Amazing Spider-Man and the "Doctor Strange" feature in Strange Tales, Ditko left Marvel for reasons he never specified.

Ditko continued to work for Charlton and also DC Comics, including a revamp of the long-running character the Blue Beetle, and creating or co-creating the Question (comics) Question, the Creeper (comics) Creeper, Shade, the Changing Man Shade the Changing Man, and Hawk and Dove. Ditko also began contributing to small independent publishers, where he created Mr. A, a hero reflecting the influence of Ayn Rands philosophy of Objectivism (Ayn Rand) Objectivism. Ditko largely declined to give interviews, saying he preferred to communicate through his work.

Ditko was inducted into the comics industrys Jack Kirby Hall of Fame in 1990, and into the List of Eisner Award winners#The Will Eisner Award Hall of Fame Will Eisner Award Hall of Fame in 1994.

==Early life==

Stephen J. Ditko was born on November 2, 1927 in Johnstown, Pennsylvania,
the son of first-generation Americans of Slovak
descent: Stephen Ditko, an artistically talented carpenter master carpenter at a steel mill, and Anna, a homemaker. The second-eldest child in a working-class family, he was preceded by sister Anna Marie,
and followed by sister Elizabeth and brother Patrick.
Inspired by his fathers love of newspaper comic strips, particularly Hal Fosters Prince Valiant, Ditko found his interest in comics accelerated by the introduction of superhero Batman in 1940, and by Will Eisners Spirit (comics) The Spirit, which appeared in a Tabloid (newspaper format) tabloid-sized comic-book insert in Sunday newspapers.
Ditko in junior high school was part of a group of students who crafted wooden models of German airplanes to aid civilian World War II aircraft-spotters.
Upon graduating from Johnstown High School in 1945,
he enlisted in the U.S. Army on October 26, 1945,
and did military service in postwar Germany, where he drew comics for an Army newspaper.
==Career==
File:Thing,The,Ditko1stcover.jpg thumb The Thing #12 (Feb. 1954), Ditkos first published comic-book cover
Following his discharge, Ditko learned that his idol, Batman artist Jerry Robinson, was teaching at the Cartoonists and Illustrators School (later the School of Visual Arts) in New York City. Moving there in 1950, he enrolled in the art school under the G.I. Bill.
Robinson found the young student "a very hard worker who really focused on his drawing"
and someone who "could work well with other writers as well as write his own stories and create his own characters",
and he helped Ditko acquire a scholarship for the following year.
"He was in my class for two years, four or five days a week, five hours a night. It was very intense."
Robinson, who invited artists and editors to speak with his class, once brought in Stan Lee, then editor of Marvel Comics 1950s precursor Atlas Comics (1950s) Atlas Comics and, "I think that was when Stan first saw Steves work."
Ditko began professionally illustrating comic books in early 1953, drawing writer Bruce Hamiltons science-fiction story "Stretching Things" for the Key Publications imprint Stanmor Publications, which sold the story to Ajax/Farrell, where it finally found publication in Fantastic Fears #5 (cover-dated Feb. 1954).
Ditkos first published work was his second professional story, the six-page "Paper Romance" in Daring Love #1 (Oct. 1953),
published by the Key imprint Gillmor Magazines.
Shortly afterward, Ditko found work at the studio of writer-artists Joe Simon and Jack Kirby, who had created Captain America and other characters. Beginning as an inker on backgrounds, Ditko was soon working with and learning from Mort Meskin, an artist whose work he had long admired. "Meskin was fabulous," Ditko once recalled. "I couldnt believe the ease with which he drew: strong compositions, loose pencils, yet complete; detail without clutter. I loved his stuff".
Ditkos known assistant work includes aiding inker Meskin on the Jack Kirby pencil work of Harvey Comics Captain 3-D #1 (Dec. 1953).
For his own third published story, Ditko penciled and inked the six-page "A Hole in His Head" in Black Magic vol. 4, #3 (Dec. 1953), published by Simon &amp; Kirbys Crestwood Publications imprint Prize Comics.
Ditko then began a long association with the Derby, Connecticut publisher Charlton Comics, a low-budget division of a company best known for song-lyric magazines. Beginning with the cover of The Thing! #12 (Feb. 1954) and the eight-page vampire story "Cinderella" in that issue, Ditko would continue to work intermittently for Charlton until the companys demise in 1986, producing science fiction, horror fiction horror and mystery fiction mystery stories, as well as co-creating Captain Atom, with writer Joe Gill, in Space Adventures (comics) Space Adventures #33 (March 1960).
He first went on hiatus from the company, and comics altogether, in mid-1954, when he contracted tuberculosis and returned to his parents home in Johnstown to recuperate.
===Marvel Comics===
After he recovered and moved back to New York City in late 1955,
Ditko began drawing for Atlas Comics (1950s) Atlas Comics, the 1950s precursor of Marvel Comics, beginning with the four-page "Therell Be Some Changes Made" in Journey into Mystery #33 (April 1956); this debut tale would be reprinted in Marvels Curse of the Weird #4 (March 1994). Ditko would go on to contribute a large number of stories, many considered classic, to Atlas/Marvels Strange Tales and the newly launched Amazing Adventures, Strange Worlds, Tales of Suspense and Tales to Astonish, issues of which would typically open with a Kirby-drawn monster story, followed by one or two twist-ending thrillers or sci-fi tales drawn by Don Heck, Paul Reinman, or Joe Sinnott, all capped by an often-surreal, sometimes self-reflexive short by Ditko and writer-editor Stan Lee.
These Lee-Ditko short stories proved so popular that Amazing Adventures was reformatted to feature such stories exclusively beginning with issue #7 (Dec. 1961), when the comic was rechristened Amazing Adult Fantasy, a name intended to reflect its more "sophisticated" nature, as likewise the new tagline "The magazine that respects your intelligence". Lee in 2009 described these "short, five-page filler strips that Steve and I did together", originally "placed in any of our comics that had a few extra pages to fill", as "odd fantasy tales that Id dream up with O. Henry-type endings." Giving an early example of what would later be known as the "Marvel Method" of writer-artist collaboration, Lee said, "All I had to do was give Steve a one-line description of the plot and hed be off and running. Hed take those skeleton outlines I had given him and turn them into classic little works of art that ended up being far cooler than I had any right to expect."
====Creation of Spider-Man====
After Marvel Comics editor-in-chief Stan Lee obtained permission from publisher martin Goodman (publisher) Martin Goodman to create a new "ordinary teen" superhero named "Spider-Man",
Lee originally approached his leading artist, Jack Kirby. Kirby told Lee about his own 1950s character conception, variously called the Silver Spider and Spiderman, in which an orphaned boy finds a magic ring that gives him super powers. Comics historian Greg Theakston says Lee and Kirby "immediately sat down for a story conference" and Lee afterward directed Kirby to flesh out the character and draw some pages. "A day or two later", Kirby showed Lee the first six pages, and, as Lee recalled, "I hated the way he was doing it. Not that he did it badly — it just wasnt the character I wanted; it was too heroic".
Lee turned to Ditko, who developed a visual motif Lee found satisfactory,
although Lee would later replace Ditkos original cover with one penciled by Kirby. Ditko said, "The Spider-Man pages Stan showed me were nothing like the (eventually) published character. In fact, the only drawings of Spider-Man were on the splash
i.e., page 1] and at the end [where] Kirby had the guy leaping at you with a web gun... Anyway, the first five pages took place in the home, and the kid finds a ring and turns into Spider-Man."
Ditko also recalled that, "One of the first things I did was to work up a costume. A vital, visual part of the character. I had to know how he looked ... before I did any breakdowns. For example: A clinging power so he wouldnt have hard shoes or boots, a hidden wrist-shooter versus a web gun and holster, etc. ... I wasnt sure Stan would like the idea of covering the characters face but I did it because it hid an obviously boyish face. It would also add mystery to the character...."
Much earlier, in a rare contemporaneous account, Ditko described his and Lees contributions in a mail interview with Gary Martin published in Comic Fan #2 (Summer 1965): "Stan Lee thought the name up. I did costume, web gimmick on wrist &amp; spider signal". He added he would continue drawing Spider-Man "[i]f nothing better comes along."
That same year, he expressed to the fanzine Voice of Comicdom, regarding a poll of "Best Liked" fan-created comics, "It seems a shame, since comics themselves have so little variety of stories and styles that you would deliberately restrict your own creative efforts to professional comics[] shallow range. What is Best Liked by most readers is what they are most familiar in seeing and any policy based on readers likes has to end up with a lot of look-a-like (sic) strips. You have a great opportunity to show everyone a whole new range of ideas, unlimited types of stories and styles—why FLUB it!"
From 1958 to either 1966,
or 1968
(accounts differ), Ditko shared a Manhattan studio at 43rd Street and Eighth Avenue with noted fetish artist Eric Stanton, an art-school classmate. When either artist was under deadline pressure, it was not uncommon for them to pitch in and help the other with his assignment.
Ditko biographer Blake Bell, without citing sources, said, "At one time in history, Ditko denied ever touching Stantons work, even though Stanton himself said they would each dabble in each others art; mainly spot-inking",
and the introduction to one book of Stantons work says, "Eric Stanton drew his pictures in India ink, and they were then hand-coloured
<!--as spelled in source-->
by Ditko".
In a 1988 interview with Theakston, Stanton recalled that although his contribution to Spider-Man was "almost nil", he and Ditko had "worked on storyboards together and I added a few ideas. But the whole thing was created by Steve on his own... I think I added the business about the webs coming out of his hands".
Spider-Man debuted in Amazing Fantasy #15 (Aug. 1962), the final issue of that science-fiction/fantasy anthology series. When the issue proved to be a top seller, Spider-Man was given his own series, The Amazing Spider-Man.
Lee and Ditkos collaboration on the series saw the creation of many of the characters best known antagonists including Doctor Octopus in issue #3 (July 1963);
the Sandman (Marvel Comics) Sandman in #4 (Sept. 1963);
the Lizard (comics) Lizard in #6 (Nov. 1963);
Electro (comics) Electro in #9 (March 1964);
and the Green Goblin in #14 (July 1964).
Ditko eventually demanded credit for the plotting he was contributing under the Marvel Method. Lee concurred, and starting with #25 (June 1965), Ditko received plot credit for the stories.
One of the most celebrated issues of the Lee-Ditko run is #33 (Feb. 1966), the third part of the story arc "If This Be My Destiny...!", and featuring the dramatic scene of Spider-Man, through force of will and thoughts of family, escaping from being pinned by heavy machinery. Comics historian Les Daniels noted, "Steve Ditko squeezes every ounce of anguish out of Spider-Mans predicament, complete with visions of the uncle he failed and the aunt he has sworn to save."
Peter David observed, "After his origin, this two-page sequence from Amazing Spider-Man #33 is perhaps the best-loved sequence from the Stan Lee/Steve Ditko era."
Steve Saffel stated the "full page Ditko image from The Amazing Spider-Man #33 is one of the most powerful ever to appear in the series and influenced writers and artists for many years to come."
Matthew K. Manning wrote that "Ditkos illustrations for the first few pages of this Lee story included what would become one of the most iconic scenes in Spider-Mans history."
The story was chosen as #15 in the 100 Greatest Marvels of All Time poll of Marvels readers in 2001. Editor Robert Greenberger wrote in his introduction to the story, "These first five pages are a modern-day equivalent to Shakespeare as Parkers soliloquy sets the stage for his next action. And with dramatic pacing and storytelling, Ditko delivers one of the great sequences in all comics."
====Doctor Strange and other characters====
File:DitkoEternity.jpg thumb right 280px Dormammu attacks Eternity (comics) Eternity in a Ditko "Dr. Strange" panel from Strange Tales #146 (July 1966).
After drawing the final issue of The Incredible Hulk (comic book) The Incredible Hulk (#6, March 1963), Ditko created
the supernatural hero Doctor Strange, in Strange Tales #110 (July 1963).
Ditko and Lee shortly thereafter relaunched a Hulk (comics) Hulk series as a short feature in the anthology Tales to Astonish, beginning with issue #60 (Oct. 1964). Ditko, inked by George Roussos, penciled the feature through #67 (May 1965). Ditko designed the Hulks primary antagonist, the Leader (comics) Leader, in #62 (Dec. 1964).

Ditko also penciled the Iron Man feature in Tales of Suspense #47–49 (Nov. 1963 – Jan. 1964), with various inkers. The first of these debuted the initial version of Iron Mans modern red-and-golden armor, though whether Ditko or cover-penciler and principal character designer Jack Kirby designed the costume is uncertain.

Though often overshadowed by his Amazing Spider-Man work, Ditkos "Doctor Strange" artwork has been equally acclaimed, for its surrealism surrealistic mystical landscapes and increasingly psychedelic visuals that helped make the feature a favorite of college students. "People who read Doctor Strange thought people at Marvel must be heads [i.e. drug users]," recalled then-associate editor and former Doctor Strange writer Roy Thomas in 1971, "because they had had similar experiences high on Psilocybin mushroom mushrooms. But ... I dont use hallucinogens, nor do I think any artists do."
Eventually Lee &amp; Ditko would take Strange into ever-more-abstract realms. In an epic 17-issue story arc in Strange Tales #130–146 (March 1965 – July 1966), Lee and Ditko introduced the cosmic character Eternity (comics) Eternity, who personified the universe and was depicted as a silhouette whose outlines are filled with the cosmos.
As historian Bradford W. Wright describes,

{{quote Steve Ditko contributed some of his most surrealistic work to the comic book and gave it a disorienting, hallucinogenic quality. Dr. Stranges adventures take place in bizarre worlds and twisting dimensions that resembled Salvador Dalí paintings.  ... Inspired by the pulp-fiction magicians of Stan Lees childhood as well as by contemporary Beat Generation Beat culture. Dr. Strange remarkably predicted the youth countercultures fascination with Eastern mysticism and psychedelia. Never among Marvels more popular or accessible characters, Dr. Strange still found a niche among an audience seeking a challenging alternative to more conventional superhero fare.
}}

The cartoonist and fine artist Seth (cartoonist) Seth in 2003 described Ditkos style as "oddball for mainstream comics. Whereas Kirbys stuff clearly appealed to a boys sensibility because there was so much raw power, Ditkos work was really delicate and cartoony. There was a sense of design to it. You can always recognize anything that Ditko designed because its always flowery. There is a lot of embroidered detail in the art, which is almost psychedelic."
Whichever feature he drew, Ditkos idiosyncratic, cleanly detailed, instantly recognizable art style, emphasizing mood and anxiety (mood) anxiety, found great favor with readers. The character of Spider-Man and his troubled personal life meshed well with Ditkos own interests, which Lee eventually acknowledged by giving the artist plotting credits on the latter part of their 38-issue run. But after four years on the title, Ditko left Marvel;
he and Lee had not been on speaking terms for some time, with art and editorial changes handled through intermediaries.
The details of the rift remain uncertain, even to Lee, who confessed in 2003, "I never really knew Steve on a personal level."
Ditko later claimed it was Lee who broke off contact and disputed the long-held belief
that the disagreement was over the true identity of the Green Goblin: "Stan never knew what he was getting in my Spider-Man stories and covers until after [production manager] Sol Brodsky took the material from me ... so there couldnt have been any disagreement or agreement, no exchanges ... no problems between us concerning the Green Goblin or anything else from before issue #25 to my final issues".
Spider-Man successor artist John Romita Sr. John Romita, in a 2010 Deposition (law) deposition, recalled that Lee and Ditko "ended up not being able to work together because they disagreed on almost everything, cultural, social, historically, everything, they disagreed on characters...."
A friendly farewell was given to Ditko in the "Bullpen Bulletins" of comics cover-dated July 1966, including Fantastic Four #52:  "Steve recently told us he was leaving for personal reasons.  After all these years, were sorry to see him go, and we wish the talented guy success with his future endeavors."
Regardless, said Lee in 2007, "Quite a few years ago I met him up at the Marvel offices when I was last in New York. And we spoke; hes a hell of a nice guy and it was very pleasant. ... I havent heard from him since that meeting."
===Charlton and DC Comics===
Back at Charlton—where the page rate was low but creators were allowed greater freedom—Ditko worked on such characters as the Blue Beetle (1967–1968),
the Question (comics) Question (1967–1968), and Captain Atom (1965–1967), returning to the character hed co-created in 1960. In addition, in 1966 and 1967, he drew 16 stories, most of them written by Archie Goodwin (comics) Archie Goodwin, for Warren Publishings horror-comic magazines Creepy (magazine) Creepy and Eerie, generally using an wash (visual arts) ink-wash technique.
In 1967, Ditko gave his Objectivist ideas ultimate expression in the form of Mr. A, published in Wally Woods independent title witzend # 3. Ditkos hard line against criminals was controversial{{Citation needed date=January 2011}} and he continued to produce Mr. A stories and one-pagers until the end of the 1970s.{{Citation needed date=January 2011}} Ditko returned to Mr. A in 2000 and in 2009.{{Citation needed date=January 2011}}
File:Ditko-DC-characters.jpg thumb 300px A panoply of Ditko DC Comics characters, from "DC Profiles" biographical page appearing in comics cover-dated April 1980, including Batman #322 and The Legion of Super-Heroes #262. From left: the Creeper (comics) Creeper; Hawk and Dove; Stalker (comics) Stalker; the Odd Man (comics) Odd Man; Shade, the Changing Man; Starman (comics)#Prince Gavyn Starman.
Ditko moved to DC Comics in 1968, where he co-created the Creeper (comics) Creeper in Showcase (comics) Showcase #73 (April 1968) with Don Segall, under editor Murray Boltinoff.
DC Comics writer and executive Paul Levitz observed that Ditkos art on the Creeper stories made "them look unlike anything else being published by DC at the time."
Ditko co-created the team Hawk and Dove in Showcase #75 (June 1968), with writer Steve Skeates.
Around this time, he penciled the lead story, written and inked by Wally Wood, in Woods early mature-audience, Alternative media independent-comics publication Heroes, Inc. Presents Cannon (1969).
Ditkos stay at DC was short—he would work on all six issues of the Creepers own title, Beware the Creeper (June 1968 – April 1969), though leaving midway through the final one—and the reasons for his departure uncertain. But while at DC, Ditko recommended Charlton staffer Dick Giordano to the company,
who would go on to become a top DC penciller, inker, editor, and ultimately, in 1981, the managing editor.

From this time up through the mid-1970s, Ditko worked exclusively for Charlton and various alternative comics small press/independent publishers. Frank McLaughlin (artist) Frank McLaughlin, Charltons art director during this period, describes Ditko as living "in a local hotel in Derby, Connecticut Derby for a while. He was a very happy-go-lucky guy with a great sense of humor at that time, and always supplied the [female] color separators with candy and other little gifts".
For Charlton in 1974 he did Liberty Belle (comics)#Charlton Comics Liberty Belle backup stories in E-Man and conceived Killjoy (comics) Killjoy. Ditko produced much work for Charltons science-fiction and horror titles, as well as for former Marvel publisher Martin Goodman (publisher) Martin Goodmans start-up line Atlas/Seaboard Comics, where he co-created the superhero the Destructor (comics) Destructor with writer Archie Goodwin, and penciled all four issues of the namesake series (Feb.–Aug. 1975), the first two of which were inked by Wally Wood. Ditko worked on the second and third issues of Tiger-Man and the third issue of Morlock 2001, with Bernie Wrightson inking.
===Latter-day Ditko===
Ditko returned to DC Comics in 1975, creating a short-lived title, Shade, the Changing Man (1977–1978).
