William "W. B." Park is an international cartoonist and illustrator.

==Biography==

Park has had over 60 cartoons published in The New Yorker The New Yorker Magazine, and wrote numerous short-short stories for them which ran on their website. Park was phased out of The New Yorker in 1997 when Robert Mankoff Bob Mankoff became cartoon editor. Park is still represented by The New Yorker on the rights and sales of his New Yorker cartoons in the United States. {{citation needed date=April 2016}}

Park is represented in the United Kingdom UK by CartoonStock.
He also works with clients directly from his studio in Florida. In 1989 he created a humor panel, "Off the Leash," which was syndicated and distributed worldwide by United Media United Feature Syndicate of United Media until 1999.
For over 30 years he was artist in residence of Litigation Journal of The American Bar Association, and continues to do work for various law firms and individual lawyers throughout the United States.

As a journalist, he has traveled, written and illustrated many articles, including a piece based on his trip to Cuba weeks after the overthrow of Fulgencio Batista by Fidel Castro in January, 1959 (Orlando Sentinel), "The Experimental Aircraft Show at Oshkosh," and "Learning to Fly" (Flying (magazine) Flying Magazine), "Snow Job," a piece on skiing a glacier in Austria (Travel + Leisure Travel &amp; Leisure), "The Cruise Ship Syndrome" (The New York Times), and "The Motor Races at Limerock." His fables ran in "Look," Intellectual Digest," Status," and "The Floridian," the magazine of "The St. Petersburg Times The St.Petersburg Times."

Park also does art for advertising agencies and directly for clients. His fine art has been exhibited in shows in New York City, Washington, D. C., and in various U.S. cities as well as Japan, the UK, and other nations.

He wrote, illustrated, and published, "City Heat, a Collection of Stories and Poems. He has written and illustrated six childrens books: "The Pig in the Floppy Black Hat" and Jonathans Friends" published by G. P. Putnams Sons, "Charlie-Bobs Fan" published by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, "Whos Sick!" published by Houghton-Mifflin, "The Costume Party" and "Bakery Business" published by Little, Brown and Company.
Park is an amateur chess player, and has won a few awards, including first place in the Under 1200 Category of the United States Open of 1997. He lives in Florida with his wife Eva, and two cats.

==Awards==

Park received the National Cartoonist Society Advertising Illustration Award in 1991, and their Greeting Card Award in 1993.
He also received the Silver Funnybone Award from The New York Society of Illustrators.
