Wallace Allan Wood (June 17, 1927 – November 2, 1981)
was an American comic book writer, artist and independent publisher, best known for his work on EC Comicss Mad (magazine) Mad and Marvel Comics Marvels Daredevil (Marvel Comics series) Daredevil. He was one of Mad
s founding cartoonists in 1952. Although much of his early professional artwork is signed Wallace Wood, he became known as Wally Wood, a name he claimed to dislike.
Within the comics community, he was also known as Woody, a name he sometimes used as a signature.

In addition to Woods hundreds of comic book pages, he illustrated for books and magazines while also working in a variety of other areas – advertising; packaging and product illustrations; joke gag cartoons; LP (format) record album covers; posters; print syndication syndicated comic strips; and trading cards, including work on Topps landmark Mars Attacks set.
<!--worded last phrase in manner to address the commented-out concerns, by attempting to acknowledge this key assignment without suggesting he was the only artist involved. This Wiki article details his Mars Attacks involvement in the section "1950s and the Silver Age" -->
EC publisher William Gaines once stated, "Wally may have been our most troubled artist... Im not suggesting any connection, but he may have been our most brilliant".
He was the inaugural inductee into the comic book industrys Jack Kirby Hall of Fame in 1989, and was inducted into the The Will Eisner Award Hall of Fame Will Eisner Comic Book Hall of Fame in 1992.

==Biography==

===Early life and career===
Wally Wood was born in Menahga, Minnesota, and he began reading and drawing comics at an early age. He was strongly influenced by the art styles of Alex Raymonds Flash Gordon, Milton Caniffs Terry and the Pirates (comic strip) Terry and the Pirates, Hal Fosters Prince Valiant, Will Eisners The Spirit and especially Roy Cranes Wash Tubbs. Recalling his childhood, Wood said that his dream at age six, about finding a magic pencil that could draw anything, foretold his future as an artist.
